. fJRACE a LACE LETTER
AN EVANQELICAL CHRISTIAN PUBL/t:A TION FOR CROSSDRESSERS,
TRANSQENDERED AND TRANSSEXUALS. POST OFFICE BOX 31253
JACKSON, MS 39286-1253 +++++ BROCHURE 1996

WHAT WEARE
We are a publication dedicated to the support of Christian cdltg/ts. Many have been
kept out of their Churches because of their orientation and have assumed God doesn't
want anything to do with them because of it and that thier lifestyle is a sin, It is NOT.
God made us this way, "You (God) are the one who put me together in my mother's
womb and I praise you because of the wonderful way you made me" Psalm 139:13-14)
God doesn't make any mistakes

IS GOD AGAINST US?
Is God neutral regarding CDfTGfTS or is He against us? Our Lifestyle Is a deviation from the norms of
society. We have bee!l told we are unacceptable especially in church society and have been branded
"sinners". How CQUld God ever stoop to love us? In some cases families are divided over us and the end
is dlwrce We can be a real source of conflict and emotlQnal upset. "God is not the God of confusion and
disorder" (1Cor.14:33a) .... .. . . "neither shall a man put on a woman's garment for all that do so are an
abomination to the Lord Your God". (Deuteronomy 22:5) So! It looks like society and God are lined up
against us. HOW can we win against those odds? We can.
'Way back in the beginning of recorded biblical history Moses tells us in Genesis chapter 6, that· already ".
. . God saw wickedness of man was great In the earth and that every imagination of the thoughts of his
heart was only evil continually. And it repented God that He had made man on the earth, and it grieved
Him at His heart. And the Lord said, ·1 will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth;
both man and beast and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth me (I am sorry) that I have made them."
(Genesis 6: 7, (King James Version) Thus the Great Flood and Noah's Ark. Noah and his family and the
animals were the only ones spared.
After the flood Noah opened the Ark and the animals and birds and creeping things were released. Then
Noah communed with God. "And the Lord said In His heart,'I will not curse the ground anymore for man's
sake, for the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth; neither will I again smite anymore every
living thing as I have done." (Genesis 8:21 )
All that happened in the flood was one bad crop of humans was destroyed. Subsequently man did not
change and God recognized the futility of the flood. The ground had dried and Noah made him a
vineyard, harvested the grapes, made wine and consequently got drunk. As Noah staggered to his bed ,
his cloak fell off and he slept naked. His son Harn saw him naked and it was against Levitlcal law
(Lev.18:7-8) for a son to see his father naked, Had Harn violated the sexual code with his father? Biblical
scholars and commentaries are fuzzy In the area of Gen 9:24. "When Noah awoke from his wine and
knew the thing his youngest son had done to him.• Be that as it may; the fact I am trying to bring out here
is that sin flourished since the beginning of mankind and the Flood didn't wash it out
In order to place some control on man's evil nature God set forth, by the Holy Spirit, through Moses, the
Ten Commandments and other rules and ordinances such as are found along with the Law in Exodus,

Leviticus, Numbers and Deuteronomy. These rules and ordinances were given as a Spiritual fence built
by God to keep His children, the Israelites, protected from the surrounding evil of the pagan world and it's
Godless practices. The Ten Commandments are burned into our hearts by the Holy Spirit to make us
aware of our shortcomings. Let me say, at this juncture, CDfTGfTS is not sinning against God in spite of
what ecclesiastical authority may decree. Read on.
Let's get to the point of all this which is to lay your (false, as you will see) guilt where it belongs, on Jesus
Christ. . . "the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world." (John 1:29) Simply put; God.once again
got sick of sinful man and took upon Himself the person of Jesus Christ and came into the world He had
created. "God did not create categories of humans" (Anon). The church has done that for Him by
creating the "desirable" and "undesirable" categories within their ranks. We being the "undesirables" in 90
% of the cases. God Himself is for us not as a category but as His created human beings. In the person
of Jesus Christ He fulfilled His decree in Ezekiel 18:13 in which He stated,· .. .the soul that sins, it shall
die.· He sacrificed Himself for our sins, past, present, and future. He who knew no sin became sin for us,
the human race, and paid the death penalty for us, for the entire human race.
Our liberation from Deuteronomy 22:5 and Deu. 23:1 is found in the following statement, "Having
canceled and blotted out and wiped WlllY the note, the bond, the ordinances (Deu. 22:5 & 23:1} with
it's legal decrees and demands which was in force and stood against us (hostile to us); this note with it's
regulations and decrees He set aside and cleared completely out of our way by nalllng It to Hie croea. •
(Colossians 2:14). We're home free the minute we accept that atonement. God made the way for us .
. CDfTGfTS and sin are not synonymous. A thumbnail sketch of the Hebrew word translated "abomination
ifl D. 22:5 is, 'to ebah 'and is conn~ed with the idolatry of the pagan world where gender bending was
· for ceremonial sexual purposes. We do not fall into that category. Some TS develop guilt from the verse
in Deu. 23:1 (CEV) which states in common English; "If a man's private parts have been crushed or cut
off (this was often done to show devotion to pagan gods),he cannot fully belong to the Lord's people.
This verse has no correlation with TS. The bible is the most liberal and liberating book in the world and it
all hinges on Christ.

We have already discovered we are powerless to do anything about our CD/TG/TS
situation, even after purges and beseeching God for deliverance. For alcohol, drugs or
tobacco there is Divine deliverance which I witness to in my own deliverance from all
three of them; but to ask for deliverance from the very nature God gave us, from the
way He made us is an unreasonable expectation. I tried it. It didn't work.

+ + +

Enjoy the conference, May Christ's peace and love be yours, My love to you, Lee F.
If you would like to enjoy GRACE & LACE LETTER you may send for a free sample or
you may subscribe @$6.00 per 4 quarterly issues, or if your finances are low and you
can't afford to subscribe I'd be happy to give you a year's subscription free. I want
everyon~ who wants G&LL to have it.
Check one. {) Free Sample. {) Enclosed $6. for 1 year. {) I can't afford it.. but want it.

CITY
STATE __ ZIP _ _ __
Check, Money order or cash to Lee Frances clo G&LL; Box 32153; Jackson MS 39286

