Gract fJlld Lact Lttter /1tle17talioNJJ

§'ta.as. and 1a.as. 1s.tts.'t.
ffnte'tnational

Help?
by Rachel Miller
When I began the journey to understand
~g.myonlygoal wutoresolvemy

personal problems. I wu too needy myself to
help others. Many 1Xg311ization.s, books and
peq>le aided my quest and became my thelapists on the road to underslanding and acceptance. As my sdf-developnent pugressed. I
wanted to give something back tothe community that had helped me.

My wife Marsha urged me to record what
we were learning on our journey because she
felt it would be helpful to ochen who were
walking a similar path. I Wlllled ID wait because I didn't have all the ..-was. 1ben I
reali7.ed that no one else did either and nodting
would ever happen ifl waited. Sol conuniued
to start doing what I could.
At first I wooied that one person couldn't
do much but then remembeml the movie,

"It's A Wonderful Life." Geage Bailey
believed his life to be a failure but his guardian
angel Clarence showed him the world u if he
had never been boot. The negative changes
resulting from his absence were startling.
Clarence told Geage that everyone•s life

touches many other lives and, if you aren't
around to touch them, it leaves a big hole. I
was detennined not to leave a bole.
Many cmWressers have serious

~ues

ranging from obsessive/compulsive behavior
to guilt and denial. Many use clothing and
makeup to block out reality. Othets continu-

<llWy su~ their ttue feelings. Tragic sur
riesofadiliction. derr~. suicide and other
destructive activities are commonplace, so
help is clearly needed.
While we pobably can't become psychialrists <X" !lleial w<Rets, we can show that
we care. We can reach out in love and friendship and accept ochers as they are without

judgmenL We can show them how toe~
their feelings. We can encourage &hem to face
their p'Oblcms. We can be a coach, a cheerleab<XaSOWlding board. Although we can't
do everything, we can follow Helen Keller's
advice-

1

"I am only one;
but still I am one.
I cannot do everything,
but still I can do something;
I will not refuse to do the sooiething I can do."
Someooe somewhere is trying to take the
step you just took. ff you doo't help
them, who clse can? You can help! You must
help! We must all do what we can, starting

same
now!

••••••••••
Rachel's oommunity best seller, "1be
Bliss of Becoming One!" encourages
cros.UcBn to inlegrare thr.ir' feminine and
masculine traits through W1drnlanding and
self~. It encoumgcs rcYClling ow
true selves to our loved ooes, helping those in
need in the oommunity and educating !lleiety.
Signed copies are available f<X SlS postage
paid from Opportunities f<X lmp"Ovemcnt.
P.O. Box 3147S, Oakland. CA 94<J04.

Swnmer 1999

Grace and Lace Letter /111ernational

Transgenderism, and 1 Corinthians 6:9-10
by Elisabeth Anne Kellogg
One of the verses used to condemn
transgenderism is 1Corinthians6:9-10. In this
article, we will do a thorough exegesis of the
passage to determine the its meaning and find
how, if at all, it relates to transgenderism.

Greek-English Lexicon With a Supplement.
(Oxford, Oxford University Press, 1968),
pp.1076f]:

This verse is cited as saying that the
effeminate will not inherit the kingdom of
God. This idea is based on the King James
V e"l'Sion's translation of the Greek malakoi.

of things subject to touch: soft.
A fresh plowed field is a "soft" field; soft.
grassy meadow; soft-fleeced; a slow fire is a
"soft" fire; marsh water is "soft" water, to
sleep "softly" means on soft bedding; to sit
"softly" means on a cushion.
of things not subject to touch: gentle; soft.
mild
"Soft" words are fair words; "soft" looks
are tender, youthful looks; a "soft" scent is
faint. er delicate; a "soft" climate is mild
of persons or modes of life: soft; mild;
gentle; and negatively: feeble; faint-hearted;
cowardly; morally weak; lacking in self con-

Know ye not that the unrighteous shall
not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived: neither fornicators, 001 idolaters, noc
adulterecs,noreffeminate,norabusersof themselves with mankind, nor thieves, noc covetous, nordrunkards,nocrevilers, norextationers, shall inherit the kingdom of God.
(1 Corinthians 6:9-10, KN)
A comparison of the King James and
New International translations, howevec,
shows that this translation is not wtiversal.
Do you not know that the wicked will not
inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: Neither the sexually immcnlnoridolaters na adulterers noc male prostitu~ na
homosexual offenders nor thieves nor the
greedy nor drunkards nor slanders noc swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God.
(1Corinthians6:9-10, NIV)

Malakos has the basic meaning of soft.

trol;.

So far we have made little progress by
wcxking with the single word. It is appropriate
to move to the next lay('J' by examining the
immediate verse. This~e lists ten groups
ofpeople who "will not inherit the kingdom of
God." The Grer..k fer some of these groups is
well know; llOffie other tenns are difficulL All
of the te.rms in this list are masculine plural. A
point to remember about gender and number
in Greek is that the feminine plural is ooly
used for groups that are exclusively feminine.
Mixed masculine and feminine groups are
always referred to with the masculine plural.

"Soft" music is effeminate or tuned to a
low pitch. "soft" writing style is feeble. "soft"
reason is weak; loose; bodily speaking, "soft"
is weakly; sick; to be ill.

root comes from the verb "to sell" In the New
Testament. this tenn appears to have two

There is nothing here to suggest that the
meaning is "effeminate," except in the musical sense. And certainly nothing to suggest

prostitution.
Looking at other scriptural references is
not particularly helpful either. Outside of this

"Male prosti~" is a lot diffezent from
"effeminate." So what is the correct translation?
Approaching this verse, I at first thought
it would simply be amatter of determining the
carect meaning of this one wml. In J'dn>.
spect. it has turned out to be m<re like the
~ of peeling an onion. This Im been
compoundedbythefactthatlDOllcommentators and translatas seem to have considered
this verse either too obvious (perhaps read
"incomequential") or too linguistically difficult to have put much effoct into explaining
and translating it

Let us then begin to peel this onion by
looking at the meaning of malakos. The following can be extracted from Liddell and
Scott [Liddell, Henrey Geage, and Scott,
Robert. revised by Jones, Henrey Stuart. A
Summer 1999

today. At that time the tenn was applied to a
class of men whowerenotocious womanizers.
These men pursued women as a careez, often
living off the older rich women whom they
seduced. 1be most famous of these was
Casanova. The modem word would likely be
"gigolo."

verse, the wool only appears twice in the
Septuagint and twice in the Gospels. In Provelbs 25: 15 we hear about the powec of a "soft"
tongue (fair speech). And in 26:22, gossip is
compared to "soft" food (choice morsels). In
Matthew 11:8andLuke 7:25, John the Baptist
asks the crowd if they have come to see a man
in "soft" clothing (fine clothes).
The early church fathers genernlly believed that in this verse Paul was talking about
those who were morally weak. It was only in
the late middle ages that interpreters started to
claim that here "soft" meant some kind of
sexual sin.
One argument put focth about translating
this word has to do with the meaning of
"effeminate" at the time the KJV was written.
In the 16th through the 18th Centuries the tenn
"effeminate" did notmean what it meam to us
2

Pornos, porne - A prostitute. The Greek

closely related meanings. Oneis as the equivalent of the Helrew z.anah, as in "Tamar has
been playing the harlot." (Gen 38:24) It was
with sense of harlotry that the Pharisees ~
~that they were not illegitimate children
in John 8:41. In l Tim 1:10 it is translated
"adulterer" in the Helrew sense when normally moichos is the proper tenn fer an adultem'. Since moichos also appears in this list.
"adulterer" is not the likely meaning. The
ocher meaning of pornos is in the JXopei" sense
of a ~titute or the palroll of a~·
Because in the New Testament. the pohibition of prostitutioo is paired so often with the
prohibition of eating meat sacrificed to idols,
it is specifically referring to temple ~tu­
tion. The NIV translatim of this word u the
gene.rali7.ed "sexually imm<ral" seems Wllenablc hele and in every other vrzse where it

occurs.
Eidololatres - An idolater, a persoo er
thing offered or dedicated to an idol
Moichos - An adulterer or paramour.
Malakos - Soft
Arseldoi~ - A slang tenn, this word

only appears three times in Greek literature
(here, in a commentary on this verse, and in 1

Tim 1: 10). ItJXObebly meant a homosexual or
a pederast. The majority of homosexuals in
the Roman world were pederasts so it is difficult to determine whethtt it refers to the
homosexuality part, the~ part a both.
In 1 Tim 1:10 it is translated~ "pervms," a
rather ambiguous word.
Klepton - A thief.
Pleonektes - A defrauder, greedy (in the
activesenseoftakingwhatyoudon'tdeserve).
Methusos - A drunkard.
Loidoros - A revilex. A velhal abwer.
Harpax - A robber or rapist. The "extortioners" of the KJV is probably betteJ' than the
"swindlers" of the NIV, fa extortioners tend
to use force to take what they want, rather than
the indirect methods of swindlers.
This list is related to that in chapter 5
verses 9-11. There the NIV lists "the sexually
immoral (prostitutes), greedy, idolat.ers, slanderers, drunkards, and swindlers."
The lists in 5:9-11 and 6:9-10 are bracketed by two discussions of "sexual immorality." One, in 5:1, discusses an instance of
incest "A man has his father's wife." The
othex, in 6: 15-20, discusses joining the members of Christ's body to a prostitute. While the
NIV translates both these passages as refexring to "sexual immorality," the Greek refers
to prostitutes. This is in obvious reference to
the fact that at Corinth the W<nhipofAphrodile
fostered prostitution in the name of religion.
At one time 1,000 sacred prostitutes sezved
her iemple. Tnis is a largenwnbex fora city of
about650,000people.Appoximately ooeout
of every hwidred women was a prostitute.

In this context, it is a liUlc difl"JCUlt to
figure out what kind of "soft" people arc being
talked about. Many trans1aUn seem to asswne the first half of the list deals with 1aual
sin and the second half with othex kind,, of
sins.

At this point it helps to enlarge the context Verses 7 and 8 provide an introduction to
verses 9 and 10, where the word adikoi gives
the pivot to coonect them.
The vexy fact that you have lawsuits
among you means you have been completely
defeated already. Why not rather be wronged?

Why notrathec be cheated? In.stead, you yourselves cheat and do wrong, and you do this to
your mothers. Do you not know that the
wicked will not inherit the kingdom of God?
(I Cor 6:7-9a, NIV)
Now we can see that this is not a random
list of ten kinds of sinners, but ten groups of

people whomightbesuedfawrongingsomeone. How then, might we translate these groups
as the victimizers of othexs?
The first two groups are people who
purport to buy a sell something that they

cannot. Prostitutes are sellers of "love." But
the one kind of love they can't sell is "true
love." In essence they take money for some-thing they can't give. The relationship between the prostitute and hWber client is mutually harmful Idoiatel's or those involved in
idol W<nhip, try to buy and sell fava with the
gods through gifts and sacrifices. Much of
religion today is still idolatry in this sense. The
sellers of heaven preach a religion of obeying
the law instead of telling people of the grace
that God has provided through the death and
resurrection of Jesus.
The next three groups are those who gain
sex by force a persuasion. Adulterers are
those who have illicit sex with married people.
Pederasts are child molesters. Between these
two "soft" may mean the seducers of Wlffiafried people. Here is recognition of the truism:
"Seduction is the subtlestfonn of rape." In this
context, the interpretation of "soft" as being
the Casanova's and Don Juan's of the wald,
makes sense.
The next two groups steal, either directly

a by persuasion: thieves and defrauders or
swindlers.
The last three groups show violence to
others. Dnmkards are those who become violent from alcohol. Revilers are velhal abusers.
Slandecs use wads to harm peoples reputatiom. In either ~. they do it out of hate.
Spouse abusers, child abusers, and any who
commithateaimes wouldalsobecondemned
here. Robbexs and rapists use violence for
gain.

Grace and Lace Letter International
Why notralher be cheated? Instead, you yourselves cheat and wrong, and you do this to
your brothel'SI Do you not know that wrongdoers will not inherit the kingdom ofGod? Do
not be deceived: Neither the sellers of "love,"
ll<X' the selbs of heaven, not the seducers of
the married, of the unmarried, or of children,
neither thieves ncr swindleFs, and not those
violent from drink, from hate, a for gain will
inherit the kingdom ofUod. ( 1 Ca 6:7- 10)
This interpretation places this passage
within the main theme of 1:10-6:20 whexe
Paul is arguing against the divisions that have
grown up in the Ccrinthian church. "I appeal
to you. brothel'S, in the name ofour Looi Jesus
Christ, that all of you agree with one another
so that there may be no divisions among you
and that you may be pedectly united in mind
and tiloughL" (l lli 1: 10) "For since there is
jealousy and quarreling among you, are you
not woodly?" (1Cor3:3) "The spiritual man
makes judgements about all things, but he
himself is not subject to any man's judgement." (1 Cor 2: 15) "If any of you has a
dispute with another, dare he take it before the
wigodly fa judgement instead of before the
saints?" (1Ca6:1) "The vexy fact that you
have lawsuits among you means you have
been C<X"Opletely defeated already." (1 a.6:7) An echo of this is in 2 Cor 12:20, "I fear
that there may be quarreling, jealousy, outbursts ofangex, factions, slandex, gossip, arrogance and discxder."
Ba<;ed on modem exegesis, this vecse has
nothing to do with transgenderism at all. It's
aboutthedangersof divisiv~inthechurch.
(c) Copyright 1999 Elisabeth Anne
Kellogg,allrightsreserved. Youareex~y
granted permission to copy this article povided you do not modify any pooion of the
text, including this copyright notice.
can
e-mail
You
lisbethk24@geocities.C<X'O

me

at

So a possible translation of this pimage
might be:

The vecy fact that you have lawsuits
among you meam you have been completely
defeated already. Whynotratherbe wronged?

3

Summer 1999

Grace and Lace Letter lnternatioNJJ

~~•ttigettbe~eb

t\leiiittg!

by Terri Main
"Let your light so shine before men, that
they may see your good woiks, and glorify
your Father which is in heaven."
Mat5:16KJV
There is a transgendered right<> activist
group called Transgendered Menace. They
have done some good workadvocating fa our
right<;, but I have a small problem with their
group. It's the name. Yes, I understand the
point People see us as a menace, but we aren't
going away just becau<;e of that. thel'P.fnre the
"menace" will be around fa awhile. My problem with the name from a Christian perspective is that none of us is called by God to be a
menace (except maybe to Satan). I would
preia that the name be Transgendered B~­
ing because that is what we are called to be, a
blessing.
Now, I can see the objections fonning
right now. You expect ME to be a blessing to
THEM? Do you know how they treated me?
Do you know what they said to me? Do you
know how many churches threw me out? No,
I don't know. I know how they treated me. I
know what they said to me. I know I had to
leave seven or eight churches before finding a
good church that accepted me. But, you see,
none of that really matters. Because whatever
they did or did oot do to me is irrelevant Jesus
said: "But I say unto you, Love your enemies,
bless them that curse you, do good to them that
hate you, and P"BY fer them which despitefully use you, and persecute you;" (Mat 5:44
KJV) This is not optional. We are to be a
blessing. It is a command. Now, unless you
have a good explanation about why you disobeyed a direct order from the King of Kings
and Lad of Loois, we have to start finding
ways to be a blessing to those around us.
Of course, there are !DJletimes p-actical
challenges in fulfilling this command. Some
people tum away from us and refuse any
attempts from us to b~ them. This is hard to
take, but I would suggt3 that those are the
very people who need God's blesmngs most of
all. So what are some ways we can be a

1. Let Pain Call Out to Pain. Most of us
have faced painful experiences in our lives.
That means that wehaveanaturalempathy for
those who are hurting. Many times those who
oppose us most vigorously are those who are
in the most pain. Look ~t the insult to the
hurting soul. H you have been hurt, do not
return the hurt, you would simply be adding
pain to pain. Instead, go down on your knees
before God fer that person. Ask God to help
heal that person's pain. And in the~ of
praying for their pain, you will be amazed to
find that your pain fades as well

2. Get Involved in theLlfeofYour Church.
I do understand that we are all in churches
representing various levels of acceptance.
Someofusareopenaboutourtranssexualism.
Others of us are not. So there may be some
practical limit<> to this suggestion, but still I
think there are various ways we can show
forth God in our lives by our sezvice in the
local assembly. One way is by regular attendance and supporting the church financially.
Anotherway,istobeinvolved,eveninasmall
way with the normal ministries of the church.
Buy a candy bar from the Sunday School kid
Bring some brownies to the bake sale. Come
to mid-week services. Help clean the church.
And if you have greater acceptance levels
offer to teach Sunday school and take part in
the various women's (a men's) ministry activities.

3. Be Friendly (Even if they are riot).
1bere was a woman in our church who was
always JXCt1Y cool toward me. She said little to
me and her look at me cut right through my
soul. The Lad led me to make a special effort
every Sunday to shake hands with her and
smile.lttookaboutthreeorfouryears,butone
Sunday she stopped me in the parking lot and
said, "I have to apologiz.e to you. I really
misjudged you." We are now on very good
t.eims. She even asked me to speak to the

Transgendered Blessing in our daily lives?

Summer 19'J9

4

church Women's group once. I believe that it
was due in no small part to my being obedient
to God in his command ferme to show myself
friendly.
4. Meet the Practical Needs of Others. H
you know someone is sick, can you take ova
acasseroleferdinner?Ifsomeooe'scarbreaks
down, can you offer a ride to chmch er the
market? H you have a skill which might help
a lrother or sister in the church, can you lay
that skill oo the altar and use it to glorify God
in meeting their needs? Jesus <lidn'tooly teach
the people, he fed and healed them. He met
their iractical needs m well as their spiritual

ones.
5.Fmally,andmostimportantofall,Pray
One fer Another. Sometimes, we toss off a
phrase like, "I guess all I can do is P'BY·" as
though this were a small thing. Praytt is

powezful. Prayer tmleashes God's power to
w<Xk in this world. And the first place he starts
worlcing is in your heart and life. Fer the past
couple of months our church has been having
daily prayer with our families at 7:30 p.m.
Each chmch family at that time turns off the
TV ,Nintendo,Radio,erComputerand~
a half hour in prayer and Bible reading. rve
noticed such incredible spiritual growth in my
life and my ability to help othels has grown
exponentially. In my P"BYtt time, God keeps
giving me ideas and directim for this and
other ministries. And you know there are
times when I can feel the P'B>US of God's
peq>&e going up for me, fer Emelgence er fer
Impiralioo On-Line. And when that happem
it's like my batteries have been recharged and
I can run a little bit longer.
No, I am not a Transgendered Menace,
and I may oot be a total Transgendezed Blessing yet. but today
pledging myself to God
to tum away from the first and pursue the
second with all my heart.

rm

Grace and Lace Letter International

Emergency Phone Numbers
When In sorrow, call John 14

When the wor1d seems bigger than God, call Psalm 90

When men fail you, call Psalm 27

When you want Christian assurance, call Romans 8:1-30

When you wonder whether anybody cares, Psalm 34

When you leave home for labor or travel, call Psalm 121

If you want to be fruitful, call John 15

When your prayers grow narrow or selfish, call Psalm 67

When you have sinned, call Psalm 51

For a great inventiol'Vopportunity, call Isaiah 55

When you worry, call Matthew 6:19-34

When you want courage for a task, call Joshua 1

When you are in danger, call Psalm 91

How to get along with fellow men, cau Romans 12

When God seems far away, call Psalm 139

When you think of investments/returns, call Mark 10

When your faith needs stirring, call Hebrews 11

If you ara depressed, call Psalm 27

When you are lonely and fearful, call Psalm 23

If your pocketbook is empty, can Psalm 37

When you grow bitter and critical, call 1 Cor. 13

If you're losing confidence in people, call 1 Cor 13

For Paurs secret of happiness, call Col 3:12-17

If people seem unkind, call John 15

For Paul's idea of Christianity, call 2 Cor. 5:15-19

If discouraged about your work, call Psalm 126

When you feel down and out, call Romans 8:31-39

Emergency numbers may be dialed direct. No operator assistance
is necessary. All lines are open to Heaven 24 hours a day!
Thanks for calling, and have a GAEAT day!

When you want peace and rest, call Matt. 11 :25-30

My Prayer

Just Walk Beside Me
"Don't walk too far ahead, I may not follow ... "
Your steps are so much swifter than my own,
If I lose sight of you within the distance,
I doubt that I can continue on alone.

I would llft up my soul to Thee,
That Thou wouldst show the way;
Teach me Thy paths and let me walk
More dutlfully each day.

"Don't walk too far behind, I may not lead ..."
I lack the strength of soul that you possess,
And If you lost your way because of me,
The both of us would face a wllderness.

Lead me In truth, Lord, help me know
Thy strength, and help I seek;
Pour forth Thy tender mercies,
For I am tired and weak.

"But walk beside me ..... so that I may know
The sweet companionship your presence brings,
So may we, hand-In-hand and heart-to-heart,
Help each other on to higher things.

My pride Is wounded and I hurt,
My heart 11 sore with pain.
Oellver me, protect me, Lord,
I ask It In Thy name.
• Anna Lee Edwards McAlpln

• Grace E. Easley

5

Swnmer 19')9

MY

TESTIMONY

by Billie Sue
My name is Billie Sue.
I am a Christian, a boot again child of God. That is the most
important thing in anybody's life.
Also, I am a trans.sexual woman. That means I Have the soul,
spirit and mind of a woman, but boot with the body of a male. The
commonlyocceptedmedicalreasonforthisconditionisthatafemale
brain developed in my little body before birth. Therefore, it is
appropriate to accept myself as female.

I struggled with the transsexual question all my life. I found
some Christian friends who shared this same problem and through
them, I found a closeness with God--close:rthan I had ever been. I had
been living a lie trying to live as a male and God doesn't approve of
liars.
You see, I was confused and often depressed. I needed help! I
asked some sisters on-line to pray for me, and I also prayed.
Suddenly, one night as I was lying in bed talking to God, my mind
became completely female. God revealed to me that I was boot
female this way fa a purpose. The pmpose was to minister to hurting
people, not just the transgendered. but to all people. By being
transsexual, I experienced the hwt, shame and feeling of unworthiness that many disabled brothers and sisters feel That night, God
took away the shame. There is no reason anym<X'e to deny being
female.

This is not the path that I would have chosen. But, I began to
understand some of the hun and shame that Jesus faced. We cannot
know the full impact of the suffering ofJesus, but I got a little glimpse.
I suffered enough to be loving and compassionate toward God's
children who have been rejected by modern society.

Oh yes, I know that I have been rejected by the church. Years ago
that would have bothered me. But, God gave me greater love than most
church members. I love all of God's creation! This is the religious
atmosphere that used to be part of my lifeand I can understand why they
are so hostile toward the transgendered. However, they are my brothers
and sisters. I love them and I am not going to judge them. Many are
walking in the only light they have. Someday we will be in heaven
together, and God will open their understanding.
We are living under grace -- under New Testament guidelines,
which requires us to be led by the Holy Ghost, not some written law.
There is no New Testament teaching against the transgendered. I know
some will point toward the effeminate males in the scriptures, but that
has no connection with the transgenden:d
I cannot be considered a cro~ ~. No matter what clothes I
wear, whether it be a dress or men's shirt and pants, I am still a woman.
The only place the Lord has required wearing a dress is in the house of
the Lord. I am to recognize that I am a woman and take the place of one
in the church.

I have no guilt How about you? How is your standing with God?
Today is the day of salvation, tom<X'IOw may be too late. It does not
matter what handle society has placed on you, GOD DOES LOVE
YOU! He wants you to come to him and let him take your burdens. He
can handle it They are too heavy fa you.
If you need help, e-mail me at: hillbillie544 l@yahoo.com
God loves you and so do I!

Letters t() the l:dlt()r
Dear Jane and Mary,

DearG&L,

Is it appropriate to thank you for publishing my latest article c.is it proper that I put on a cloak of mock hwnility and say nothing?
I remember when it wasamatal sin toapplaudagoodchoirrendition

I think your site i.e so wonderful I have been a believer going oo 10
years now. I too have struggled with being transgendered since I was
very young and now I am 47. My wife and myself were accepted at a
Christian school of ministry; howevt7 the timing was not right and I had
to deal with sitwltiom at the time.

orwhensisterDaisysangexceplionallywell. Don'tletmegetstarted.
You have helped me to reach further with the message of God's love
for US!!

I can no longer support the <qanized religion sect(W because of all
the hate and miswldezsmnding that there is about the transgendezed and
the gay/lesbian commwiities. At the time of one's salvation, it says in
like to reprint it in LL with your pennission.
Romans10:9&10, if you confess with your month that Jesus is lord and
believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead you shall be
Becky had 2 good articles. She sent me both. I have used one saved. It does say any BUI'S. Like, BUT if you are a transgendered
and will use Wen it Out in my next LL. Tern Main and Rachel person you will go to bell. This is what the church has to take hold of.
Miller's articles were good as was Jaye's.
God's love is a love that is uncooditionaL He takes as we are and that
means no maner what we are. It is hard f<r most Ouistians to believe
God bless and keep you both and continue to use you fa His this little simple~· Wdl, that's all fa now. Hyou can, please
glory!
reply andlet me know what you think.
Anothez Believtt,
Love,
Jamie
Ouistine
Lee
Summer 1999
6
Aside from my article and update Jetter, every article in this issue
rang a bell. the article by Rev. Vera I. Bourne was excellent and fd

Grace and Lace Letter International
(Editors' Note: At the recent Spouses' and Partners' International Conference for Education (SPICE), we conducteda simple Sunday
morning service. This could serve as a model for any gathering of Transgendered Christians. By way of explanation, the theme of this
SPICE was " A Wilderness Adventure," comparing couples' efforts to cope with transgender issues to a long canoe journey in the
Boundary Waters districL)

SPICE VII
Interfaith Service
Enter his gates with thanksgiving, and his courts with praise. Be thankful to him, and bless his name. Amen.
Brothers and sisters, as we come to the end of our Wilderness Adventure we are gathered here to give God thanks and
praise for his great goodness and love toward us, and in particular to thank him for all he has shown us through these last few
days here at SPICE.
We are told to sing to the Lord and make a joyful noise, so let's sing something we all know:

Amazing Grace
Amazing grace!- How sweet the sound! that saved a wretch like me!
I once was lost, but now I'm found;
Was blind, but now I see.
'Twas grace that taught my heart to fear,
And grace my fears relieved;
How precious did that grace appear
The hour I first believed!
Through many dangers, tolls and snares
I have already come;
It's grace that brought me safe thus far,
And grace wlll lead me home.
When we've been there ten thousand years,
Bright shining as the sun,
We've no less days to sing God's praise
Than when we first begun.
Praise God! Praise God ...
(Lee then offered a song of praise, ·E1 Shaddai.·)

Because we are •differenr we are tempted to think of ourselves as biological accidents, flawed, unlovely
and unlovable, but God says otherwise:

A Reading from Psalm 139 (Ps. 139: 13-18)
•You created my inmost being. You knit me together in my mother's womb. I praise you because I am
fearfully and wonderfully made! Your works are wonderful; I know that full well. My frame was not hidden from
you when I was made in the secret place. When I was woven together in the depths of the earth, your eyes saw
my unformed body. All the days ordained for me are written in your book before one of them came to be:
Or, to put it another way, •God don't make no junk!" And, he not only made us, he loves us!
•For God so loved the world, that he gave his one and only son, that whoever believes in him shall not
perish, but have eternal life: John 3:16
Summer 1999
7

Grace and Lace Letter International

A Reading from the Letter of Paul to the Romans: Rom. 8:31-39
"What, then, shall we say in response to this? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not
spare his own Son , but gave him up for us all - how will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things?
Who will bring any charges against those whom God has chosen? It is God who justifies. Who is he that
condemns? Christ Jesus, who died - more than that, who was raised to life - is at the right hand of God and is
also interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall trouble or hardship or persecution
or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? .... No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who
loved us. For I am convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels nor demons, neither the present nor the
future, nor any powers, neither height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from
the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord."
That being the case , brothers and sisters, let's not allow ourselves to be tied up in systems of religious
rules and social stereotypes. God is not about rules. God is about relationships. He is not some remote force.
He is a loving Parent who wants only our good. He sent his son to live and die as one of us, to model his love
for us. He offers his love to each of us now and always, in a relationship that is permanent. It is ours for the asking.

Personal Prayers
(aloud or sHent)

The Lord's Prayer
Our Father in Heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. Your will be done on earth , as it is
in Heaven . Give us this day our daily bread. Forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin against us. Save
us from the time of trial, and deliver us from evil. For the kingdom, the power and the glory are yours, now and
forever. Amen .

Fellowship Meal
Jesus related to us in the commonest details of our lives. Let us remember him in the sharing of this food
and drink.

Closing
As our Wilderness Adventure leads us back among familiar scenes of home and work, let us carry with us
what we have learned on the trail , and whenever we are lost and can't seem to find the portages, remember the
Great Outfitter and look for the trail he has blazed.

May the Good Lord Bless and Keep You
May
May
May
May

the good Lord bless and keep you, whether near or far away.
you find that long awaited golden day today.
your troubles all be small ones, and your fortune 10 times 10.
the good Lord bless and keep you, tlll we meet again.

May you walk with sunlight shining, and a bluebird In ev'ry tree.
May there be a silver llnlng back of every cloud you see.
Fill your dreams with sweet tomorrows. Never mind what might have been.
May the good Lord bless and keep you till we meet again.

Summer 1999

8

Grace and Lace Letter Imernational

Jesus' Other Sheep: You!
By Lee Frances Heller
"Other sheep I have, that are not of this fold; them also must I
bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold and
one shepherd" -- John 10: 16
One of our greatest difficulties is the non-acceptance of our life
style by the "churches," which results in rejection of us by at least
95%ofthem. Theonlythingwrongisthattheydon'treadallthebible.
The man made legalism manifests itself in that little black book
written by man whose title is "Chmch Discipline." It very often
supersedes the bible. It has no elasticity. It is iron bound, and so are
its adherents. This is why we are often asked to leave a church and
branded undesirable. They are all of the flock of Jesus, and when they
have negative attitudes towards us, they simply set themselves aside
as keepers of the house of God and the family of God in which there
is no room for us, as we are not stereotypical and don't fit

Jesus says to them, "And other sheep I have that are not of this
fold" He wants to get us all together in one field and be our shepherd.
I often wonder about my daughter who was raised to be the Cluistian
she is. She is bitterly, almost violently, against me. How in the world
are we going to get along in heaven? We're both going there. We'll
do just fine, as when we die we lose all manifestations of the flesh.
We don't take our likes and dislikes with us. There will be no
crossdressing needs. No gender dysphoria because, "For you are all
children of God by faith in ChristJesus. For as many of you who have
been baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew or
Greek, there is neither bond or free, there is neither male or female:
for you are all one in Christ Jesus." (Galatians 3:26-28)
That applies to life in this world also, but imperfections in the
weave of the church society fail to make it a reality. I guess that's why
Jesus referred to the "the other sheep I have." Pooitionally, we are in
the fold Our wings are reserved for us in heaven. Each of us will be
one of the heavenly host someday. It doesn't feel like it now because
of the battle we have with "spiritual wickedness in high places."
(Ephesians 6: 12)

God loves you, and Christ died f<r you. He died to remove the
blanket of sin you were born wxfer. Open up your he'i.rt anc life to
Him and join us "other sheep." As Christ came into this world and
went to His own people in this w<rld He created and was rejected by
them, the principle of rejection wu made alive and real on a Spiritual
level. But as many as did receive and welcome Him, He gave the
authority (power, privilege, right) to become the children of God;
that is, to those who believe in (adhere to, trmt in, rely on) His name.
John 1:11-12.
"As many as," Nowhere in the bible will you find an exception
to any invitation which says, "except cd/tg/ts."

We are the OTHER sheep. We are His sheep just as much as the
finest, noblest, hierarchy <r member the chmch can offer.

There was a couple who used to go to England to shop in the
beautiful stores. They both liked antiques and pottery and especially
iea:ups. This was their twenty-fifth wedding anniversary.

One day in this beautiful shop they saw a beautiful tea:up. They
said, "May we see that? We've never seen one quite so beautiful."

As the lady handed it to them, suddenly the tea:up spoke. "You don't
understand," it said "I haven't always been a tea:up. There was a time
when I was red and I was clay. My master took me and rolled me and
patted me over and over and I yelled out, 1et me alone,' but he only
smiled, 'Not yet.'
"Then I was placed on a spinning wheel," the tea:up said, "and
suddenly I was spun around and around and around. Stop it! I'm getting
dizzy! I screamed But the master only nodded and said, 'Not yet.'
'"Then he put me in the oven. I never felt such heat I wondered why
he wanted to burn me, and I yelled and knocked at the door. I could see
him through the opening and I could read his lips as He shook his head,
'Not yet'
"Fmally the door opened, he put me on the shelf, and I began to cool.
There, that's better,' I said And he brushed and painted me all over. The
fumes were horrible. I thought I would gag. 'Stop it, stop it!' I cried He
only nodded, 'Not yet.'
'"Then suddenly he put me back into the oven, not like the first one.
This was twice as hot and I knew I would suffocate. I begged I pleaded.
I screamed I cried All the time I could see him through the opening
nodding his head saying, 'Not yet.'
'"Then I knew there wasn't any hope. I would never make it I was
ready to give up. But the door opened and he took me out and placed me
on the shelf. One hour later he handed me a mimr and said, 'Look at
yourself. And I did I said, That's not me; that couldn't be me. It's
beautiful. rm beautiful.'
"'I want you to remember, then,' he said, 'I know it hurts to be rolled
and patted. bill if I had left you alooe, you'd have dried up. I know it made
you dizzy to spin around on the wheel, but if I had stopped, you would
have crumbled I knew it hurt and was hot and disagreeable in the oven,
but if I hadn't put you there, you wouldhave cracked.

"'I know the fwnes were bad when I mushed and painted you all
over,butifihadn'tclonethat,youneverwouldhavehardened;youwould
not have had any coa in your life. And if I hadn't put you back in that
second oven, you wouldn't survive for very long because the hardness
would not have held. Now you are a finished irociuct You are what I had
in mind when I first began with you.'"

God knows whatHe'sdoing(fm-allofus). He is the Potter, and we
are His clay. He will mold~ and make~. so that we may be made into
a flawless piece of wen to fulfill His good, pleuing, and perfe.ct will.
"No temptation has seized you except what is common to man. And
God is faithful; he will not tempt you beyond what you
bear..i"999
9
(1C<rinthians10:13)
ummer

er

Grace and Lace Letter InternatioNJl

God's Loving Kindness
a Sunday Sermon
by Fran Estes
Kindness extended to us is something we
all appreciate.
The Old Testament Book of Kings gives
us a lesson this mooting on Kindness. Elisha.....
one of the Old Testament prophets, ..... seems
to have met a wealthy woman who fed him as
he traveled through Shunem one day.

help, ... She bore a son a year later.
Thoughtfulness can be a powerful and
healing virtue and it doesn' t come naturally
for most folks, ........ We deepen it with practice..... If we take the time to really think about
the other person,......... Our thoughtful acts
then become a special form of love.

She must have beenagoodr..ook. ... or had,,,,,
And isn't this the ultimate command of
a good cook. ... or employed a good cooK, Jesus for all of us,..... Love one ancther as I
because we are told that whenever he traveled have loved you !
though that town he would stop for a meal and
eventually,..... He did that so often that he was
What is it that motivates us to do thoughtprovided a room of his own. A wonderful act ful things for other people? .....There can be
of kindess extended to him.
several kinds of motivations that bring people
to do nice things for others ....... ..For
Acts of kindness are very important be- instance,. ...they can be done for our own selfcause they sometimes have great power to ish reasons,. ....They can be done to manipurestore others,.... Great power to encourage late someone perhaps.......We can do kind
others,. ..... sometimes lifting them out ofdown things to set them up foe something ! You
times or depression.
know, ... Like the husband who brings home
flowers foe his wife when it isn' t their anniIn today's reading we find a step perhaps versary or birthday, ..... and she just knows he
a bit higher than kindness, .... Its thoughtful- may have an ulterior motive in mind!
ness.
I sort of speculated on what the motivaThoughtfulness is kindness, ...... But tion was for the wealthy woman who provided
more...... A really thoughtful person doesn t all thatkindess to Elisha. .... Could it be becasue
just do some considerate things on the im- she knew he had influence with God?
pulse....... This might be kind ,. .......And of
course that' s good and that's nice,. ......... But
But when we perform thoughtful acts
really thoughtful people think about the other that flow freely from our minds and hearts wc
person,....... Think about their situation...... are moved by the grace of GOIL. ..
They go through the trouble to inquire and
find out what it is that the person really needs.
If God is Love ,...... And we love
freely, ....... With no conditiom in mind, ... No
Thoughtfu~ involves catching what
payment in return in mind,...... We are allowtheir need is,....... And then acting to fill that ing God to love others through us.
need. ....... This is mcxe than kindness .... It
take more time, .... And it takes a bigger investAnd this is possible,. ...... Because through
ment in the relationship of one person to our baptism, ... Paul reminds us this mooting
another.
thatweliveinthe newnessoflife ..... We live
a sacramental life,•..... With the power to bring
That's what Elisha did in our stay this God s love and care to others.
morning.... He went through the trouble of
finding out what these hospitable people
At baptism,. .. We died a kind of spiritual
needed,....... And as we heard, it was a death! And we came out of the waters of our
child,.......... Her husband was old, ...........So baptism,. .. Born Again ,..... Born again into a
Elisha intervened to God after he searched out new life. A life which gives us the power and
the exact thing she needed,... And with God's God's grace to live for others,. ... To think
Summerlm
10

about others. It gives us the strength and the
motivation,..... To move out of the immature
stage of our development where we lived as
though the entire world revolved around ME!
When our casket is brought through that
church door, ... It is sprinkled with water,....
And the words of the minister reminds everyone,.... See in this water a reminder of your
baptism,... When you died with Christ, .... And
entered into the New Life ,. ... A n~w creation
of God. You came out of your baptism water
and entered into the resurrected life of Christ
This is notjustaheady theological construct,. ...
It has real implications foc our daily life.
St Paul reminds us this morning,. .. Because of our baptism,... We must think of
ourselves as living for God in Christ Jesus,...
Which of course has much to do with living
focothers.
This thought moves us right into our
gospel for today..... Which deals with the
radical cost of being a disciple, ... A student of
Jesus Christ One who lives their life trying to
follow his way.
Throughout his teachings his main concern was directed to the Little Ones . You just
heard,... If you give even a cup of cold water
to one ofthese little ones,... You will surely not
lose your reward. ...•.
We have heard many times,.. who these
little ones are,..... They are the people in
need, ...... the misfits and the powerl~ •.......
The street people perhaps,.... Those whose
appearaoce does not tum ~ on,....... The
marginalized,.......Those of a different OOentation in life,..... Or the ones wc see over and
over in emergency rooms who are brought in
dirty and scared and malnourished because of
their addictions and negle.ctof their bodies..... .
The Little Ones ,.... The misfits of our time
who were the lepers of the Lool's time.
Now we need to be clear about whatJesus
said, ..... He didn 't say you will get a reward if
you do kind and thoughtful acts to those in
need,..... He said,... you will not lose your

Grace and Lace Letter International

reward...... You already have the promise of
the reward.
The promise of the reward,. .. Heaven,...
Etemallife,.... Howeveryouseeitorwhatever
you call it It is pure gift,. ... Given to us with
no price,... No conditions.... No payment
One of my favorite lines from a theologian of our tradition says: You cannot win

God's love, ... You cannot lose God's love!
And that is the mystery that seems to defy
understanding.... Maybe that's why so many
need to somehow justify this WlCOllditional
love of God,. .... by doing things to earn it
We can' t earn what is already given.....
In this week's Evangelist... The weekly column by Fr. Dietzen touches on this,.... He

writes: "Your salvation,... Your reward,... Is
not from you! It is the gift of God, .. It is not
from works as some may boast!"
We love because He first loved us! We
do thoughtful things f<»" othtts,.. Because if
we examine our lives,... And think about it,...
We can see the multitude of things God has
done for us, ... And doesn' t this bring us to the
issue of justice? As Jesus put it: What you
have received as gift,... Now give as gift!
Readings: 2Kings:4-8-12a.14-17; Rom
6:3-4, 8-11; Mt:10:37-42

The Challenge
Do you think that your tomorrow
Will be different than today?
Do you think the things you hoped for
Will come true in any way?
Dy the thoughts you put in action,
By the dreams you strive to reach
You can shape or form the future
By some hard-sought fact they teach.

Choose the good you want to happen

Once upon a time there was a wise man
who used to go to the ocean to do his writing.
He had a habit of walking on the beach
before he began his work .
One day he was walking along the shore.
As he looked down the beach,
he saw a human figure moving like a dancer.
He smiled to himself to think of someone who would
dance to the day.
So he began to walk faster to catch up.
As he got closer, he saw that it was a young man
and the young man wasn't dancing,
but instead he was reaching down to the shore,
picking up something and very gently throwing it
into the ocean.
As he got closer he called out,
"Good morning! What are you doing?"
The young man paused, looked up and replied,
"Throwing starfish in the ocean."
"I guess I should have asked,
why are you throwing starfish in the ocean?"
"The sun is up and the tide is going out.
And if I don't throw them in they'll die."
"But, young man, don't you realize that there are
miles and miles of beach and starfish all along it?
You can't possibly make a difference!"
The young man listened politely.
Then bent down, picked up another starfish
and threw it into the sea past the breaking waves,
and said, "It made a differnnce for that on9 ."
There is something very special in each and every one of us.
We have all been gifted with the ability to make a difference.
And if we can become aware of that gift, we gain through
the strength of our visions the power to shape the future.

It surrounds you in the "now."

You can make or change the present
Let God's wisdom show you how!

We must each find our starfish. And If we throw our stars
wisely and well, the world will be blessed.
- Attributed to Loren Eisley

Take the path that seems to open:
For you're walking it today!
You can even change tomorrow,
If you let God show the way!
- Roxie Lusk Smith
11

Summer 1999

Grace and Lace Letter International

The 23rd Psalm
Updated
The Lord is my programmer,
I shall not crash.
He installed His software on the hard disk of my heart;
All of His commands are user-friendly .
His directory guides me to the right choices
For His name's sake .
Even though I scroll through the problems of life,
I will fear no bugs, for he is my backup .
His password protects me .
He prepares a menu before me in the presence of my
enemies.
His help is only a keystroke away.
Surely goodness and me rcy w111 ~;),[fr.,\y me all the days
of my life ,
And my file will be merged with His and saved forever.

The Baseball Game
Bob and the Lord stood by to observe a baseball game. The Lord's
playing Satan's team. The Lord's team was at bat, the score
was tied rero to zero and it was the bottom of the 9th inning with two
outs.
They continued to watch as a batter stepped up to the plate whose
name was Love. Love swung at the first pitch and hit a single, because
Love never fails.
The next batter was named Faith, who also got a single because
Faith works with Love.
The next batter up was named Godly wisdom. Satan wound up and
threw the first pitch. Godly Wisdom looked it over and let it pass: Ball
one. Three more pitches and Godly Wisdom walked, because Godly
-.visdom never swings '.lt what Satan lhtows.
The bases were loaded. The Lord then turned to Bob and told him
He was now going to bring in His star player. Up to the plate stepped
team was

Grace.

Editorial Statement
The Grace and Lace Letter is a Christian publication for
transgendered persons. Our motto is ''Where Charity and Love
Prevail... " In keeping with our motto, we will not publish
material bashing any transgenderedorChristian person or group,
nor will we publish any adhominem argwnent We hope to bring
the message of God's unconditional love and forgiveness, as
shown to us once and for all by the saving life, death and
reswrection of Jesus Christ, to our transgendered brothers and
sisters. We welcome personal testimonies, teachings from
God's Holy Scriptures, prayers and poems and hymns, cartoons
and hwnorous stories, accounts of events affecting Christian
transgendered pel'SOns, and messages of hope and inspiration.
Our goal is to praise and worship God and bring His healing love
to His children.

Grace & Lace Letter International
A Christian publication serving spiritual needs of all
crossdressers, transgendereds, transsexuals, new women,
new men, significant others and family members. Your
articles, letters and love offerings weJcomed.
MAILING ADDRESS: 8880 Bellaire 82 PMB104
Houston TX
E-Mail: JEFTRIS@aol.com
Web: http://www.geocities.com'SouthBeach/Sands/7777/
and http://mermers.aol.com'GnLNews/index1 .html
Other sites for Transgendered Christians:
http://www.geocities.coml-terrimainlinspire .htm
http://www.geocities.com/hotsprings/2n6/
http://www.engr.ucclavls.edJ/-jsdevlnljadecath.html
and for all GLBT Christians: 'Whosoever' Christian
Magazine at:
http://www.mindspring.com/-sagecomm/Whosoever/
"Summer 1WY
12

no36

Bob said, "He sure doesn't look like much!" Satan's whole team
relaxed when they saw Grace. Thinking he had won the game, Satan
wound up and fired his fust pitch.
To the shock ofeveryone, Grace hit the ball harder than anyone had
ever seen. But Satan was not w<nied; his center fielder let very few
get by.
He went up fa the ball, but it went right through his glove, hit him
on the head and sent him crashing on the growld; then it continued over
the fence for a home run! The Lord's team won.
The Lord then asked Bob if he knew why Love, Faith, and Godly
Wisdom could get on base but could not win the game. Bob answered
that he did not know why.
The Lord explained, "If your love, faith and wisdom had won the
game you would thinlc you had done it by yourself. Love, faith and
wisdom will get you on lme, but only My Grace can get you home. My
Grace is the one thing Satan cannot stop!"
Amen!

CROSSDRcf.SERS...
You are not alone!

!\

the Society for the Second Self, Inc.
•An educational and social support organization for
heterosexual crossdressers, spouses and famiUes
·auarter1y journal

*Local chapters with monthly newsletters
*MailFoiwarding Service and Merrbership Directory
·auarter1y newsletter for spouses and partners
*Big Sister Program for individual support
*Online forums for crossdressers and spouses
For information write:
Tri-Ess, 8880 Bellaire 82 PMB104, Houston TX n036
Telephone: 713-349-8969
E-Mail: TRIESSINFQ@aol.com

