/

/

Grace and Lace Letter lmernatiatrDJ

ffntetnational
9-all 1998

A Reading from the Holy Gospel according to St. Luke
And in the six month the angel Gabriel was sent from God
unto a city of Galilee, named Nazareth, to a virgin espoused to a man
whosenamewasJoseph,ofthehouseofDavid;andthevirgin'sname
was Mary.
And the angel came in wtto her, and said, "Hail, thou that
art highly favoured, the Lord is with thee; blessed art thou among
women."
And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and
cast in her mind what manner of salutatio.-i this should be.
And the angel said unto bee, "Fear not, Mary, fcx- thou hast
found favor with God. And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy
womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name JESUS.
He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest. and the
Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his~ David. And be
shall reign over the house of Jacob fCX'Cvcr; and of his kingdom the.re
shall be no end."
Then said Mary unto the angel, "How shall this be, seeing
I know not a man?"
And the angel answered and said unto her, "The Holy
Ghost shall come upon thee. and the power of the Highest shall
overshadow thee. TherefCX'C also that holy thing which shall be ban
of thee shall be called the Son of God.
And, behold, thycousinElizabeth,shebathalsoconceived
a son in her old age, and this is the sixth month with her, who was
called barren. For with God nothing shall be impossible."
And Mary said, "Behold the handmaid of the Lord. Be it
unto me according to thy word." And the angel departed from her.
Luke 1:26-38

In the Fall of the year, as we observe the change of seasom and
the shortening of days, we are tempted to ask again that age-old question
of WHY. Why am I this way? Why am I transgendered? Why has God
M>ught this wtwanted complication into my life, a complication that has
coot me so much,~ even the loss of loved ones, li..,·elihood, social
statm and health? And why, when I begged Him so, has He not seen fit
to remove it?
The imsage we have just read holds not only the answer to the
WHY but also the model fcx- t.'lc HOW '1i oor lives. The m~ striking
aspect of Mary's~ to the angel's announcement is that she does
not even ask WHY. She simply accepts God's plan for her, "as is."
Shedoesa*HOW,anotherquestion wedebateendlessly. The
angel's answer, which satisfied Mary, amounted to this: GOD HAS A
PLAN, AND YOU ARE PART OF IT. That answe:r should also satisfy
us. God loves each of us and bat a plan fcx- our lives. His plan fcx' Mary
involved bee incurring the social stiama ol a p-egnancy outside ol
marriage, with the further risk of physical hmrmment and even aiminal
penalty. Our transgendaed stablS often confers on us much the same
thing.
Yet for us. u f<X' Mary, comes the ~e of hope: "Fcx- with
God nothing shall be impossible." When we accept God's Plan. we also
have His Promise, "Lo. I am with you alway, even unto the end of the
wood." While we sec no angels around us. rescuing us OUT of our
trouble, we can be sure He is with us, coming alongside us TiiROUGH
each situation. AsweacceptHisleadingandfollowHisplan. wechannel
His love and mercy to othels, as Mary did in txinging to birth Jesus, God's
love in human flesh. Amen!
Fall l998
1

OUR

GENDER

FAMILY

# 13 -

OCTOBER,

1998

LET THE WALLS FALL DOWN
BY

The bedrock of the United States' governing system affirms that all men are created
equal and have certain God-granted rights. It
is a nation with a strong spiriwal heritage and
the dual principles of loving God and loving
your neighbor are widely espoused. Many
settle.rs fled religious oppression and came to
the U.S. in pursuit of their own pexsonal vision
of freedom of spiriwal expression. Curiously,
even with that backdrop, various groups of
citizens, all of them God's children, find themselves treated decided! y unequally by much of
society and frequently shunned by many religious organiz.ations.
I have a pennanent membership in one of
those ill-treated groups and have considerable
experience with the pain, guilt and shame
inflicted by repeated rejection. The person
that I allow everyone to see in public is perfectly acceptable and enables me to move
about society freely without causing a ripple.
Yet. I feel compelled to continue to hide some
of the truth about myself knowing how others
would likely react if they knew.

In mid-1991, after spending fifty years in
hiding, I embarked on a journey to confront
the fear and end my hiding. What is this
fearful, secret burden that I have dragged with
me? Terror of terrors. I am a man who
sometimes likes to wear a dre$. That's it! It
may not seem like much, but it causes significant repercussions. Pe.ople label me a lransvestite or cross-dresser and many times~
thing far w<ne. Moody fm surprisingly like
any othex person you know. We hide so
deeply in our closets that no one. even our
closest loved ones, suspects our secret. Even
though you almoot certainly know one of us,
you don't know that you know.

RACHEL

(RICHARD)

MILLER

person they had known and loved ovex the
years and accepted the news as part of my total
person. Many relationships have actually
deepened. Since I had become vulnerable by
telling my story, they felt secure enough to tell
their secrets, and these exchanges have resulted in an unexpected muwal easing of
burdens.
Even after telling those closest to me, I
have continued to withhold that information
from most of my daily life. '1have considered
the corporate wOlk:place out ofbounds for fear
of looing my job. Stores and restaurants have
been avoided for fe.ar of recognition and for
my safety. Although I bristle at those restrictions, I have been able to rationalize them with
one exception - church!
I am a spiriwal person and strongly desire
an accepting church home. For many years I
have struggled with the question of how Rich·
ard could show the truth about his more feminine side at church. Not being able to show
has continued to hammer at my sense of self.
worth and has farmed the belief that I am not
aa:eptable. In late August I wrote a letter
(Keyword to: http://members.aol.com/
rachelmi1Vspirit03.htm) to the pastors of nine
local churches of different denominations,
telling my story and asking if I would be
welcome at thcir churches. I included a copy
ofa poem from my book. TheBlissofBecomingOne(Keyword to: http://membels.aoLcom
rachelmil1'1>obo.htm), that describes my overall character and place.s cross~ in a
balanced perspective. I included an extract of
an article that I had wriuen scveml years ago
that addresses Biblical coocerna.
I have been encouraged that two of the

It is discouraging that in the past month,
seven of the pastors have failed to respond they haven't said yes, they haven't said no,
they haven't said anything. Perhaps the lack of
response can be partially attributed to the
prejudice towards cr~-dressers that stems
from negative stereotypical views and there is
good reason for many of those views. Most of
us try to blend unnoticed into society so only
a small percentage is visible. Those who are
visible tend to be more flamboyant personali·
ties who often wear gaudy costumes and
engage in attention-attracting behavia. Many
of us complain that the outrageousness of a
few ruins our reputation, still we continue to
hide so you don't see the l~ ostentatious,
garden-variety cros.Hlressex.

Some people believe that cross-dressers
are simply getting what we deserve. They
considez us sinners and violators of God's
word and that justifies ootracizing us and even
restrictin& our civil righ~ That point of view
ii incompatible with the principles of the
governing sysiern and with the spiritual principle of love and acceptance and needs to be
changed!
The primary obligation for initiating this
change resides within the gender community,
a general tenn used to embracecross-Oressen,
transsexuals and other people who consider
~ves transgendered. We must reduce
the degree oihiding and let others see us as we
are. I...ackina that ~. attitudes will
continue to be based on the few who flaunt
~inpublic. lfyouaretransgendered.
consider coming a bit further out of your
closet and. without taking excessive risks.
working fa your spiriwal freedom and the
spiritual freedom of othen.

pastors wrote personal not.ea inviting me to

Oneel understood and accepted the~
dressing part of me, I felt a strong compulsion
to share that news with my family and friends,
the people I love and care about I simply had
to end the pretending and hypocrisy that had
overshadowed so much of my life. Remarkably, after sharing the truth with nearly sixty
oved ones, they have all continued our relationships. They saw that I was still the same
Fall 1998

attend. My wife Marsha and I,~ tradi·
tionally,havevisitedbothchurchestoseehow
well they fit my needs and how well we fit in.
I am continuing to attend sezvices 11 one
church, still in traditional male attire, and ha'f'C
enrolled in a class for pnspective new members. I am taking my time before deciding
how to ixoceed-

2

The next most important step rests within
the religiousconununity. Religious organii.ations., churches, ministers and members can
exert leadership to change the existing atti-

tudes. Comida demomlratini the love exemplified in this song that I learned last week
at a local church.

Let The Walls Fall Down
One by one we're drawn together,
One by one to Jesus' side,
One in Him we'll live forever,
Strangers He has reconciled.
In His love no walls between us,
In His love a common ground.
Kneeling at the cross or Jesus,
All our pride comes tumbling down.
(Chorus)
Let the walls fall down,
Let the walls fall down;
Let the walls fall down,
By His love let the walls fall down.

Bill Batstone, Anne Barbour &
John Barbour
(c)1993 MaranaJha! Music

Governing officials have another crucial
role in changing conditions. Only a handful of
jurisdictions prohibits discrimination against
transgendered people and even the Fede.ral
Employment Non-Discrimination Act
(ENDA) is not designed to protect us. While
we haven't yet wielded significant political
clout, all citizens deserve legal protection. If
you are a legislator, considec how to help
transgendered people to iK:hieve equal status
in soci@'.

To change views, active media participation is essential. The July 20 issue of~ran
a construe ti ve story, "Trans Across America,"
describing the efforts of transgendered people
working for equality. The Arts & Entertainment Channel will air "Transgender Revolution" a grmmd-breaking documentary on October 5. The program moves beyond sensationalism and freak show images and treats us
as real people fighting for our civil rights. If
you are a member of the media, consider
portraying a factual, non-emotional account
of transgendeced people or issues to dispel
some of the negative stereotypes.
The medical community is needed to
heal the existing pain and suffering. Most
transgendered people function extremely well
in society in spite of the difficulties they face,
but many have deve!oped sigPificant emotional JXOl>lems. They have been forced to
compartmentafu:e their lives into a societyacceptable piece while hiding the true-self
piece and this disassociation has had dreadful
repercussions. The problems are exacerbated
by the low level of involvement by the medical prof~on. If you are a health care professional, considec helping these people to break
through their emotional barriers and integrate
their lives.

Grace and Lace Letter International
While we have differing beliefs and value
systems, we must find ways to demonstrate
real love and concern towards real people with
real problems. Together we can achieve freedom of spiritual expression by making the
transgendered walls fall down.
When we allow freedom to ring,
when we let it ring from every village
and every hamlet,
from every state and every city,
we will be able to speed up that day
when all of God's children,
black men and white men,
Jews and Gentiles,
Protestants and Catholics,
will be able to join hands
and sing in the words or the old
Negro spiritual,
'Free at last!
Free at last!
Thank God almighty,
we are free at last!'

Rev. Martin LJ.uher King, Jr.
%Opportunities for Improvement

P.O. Box 31475
Oakland. CA 94fi04, U.S.A.
(925) 935-9594
http://me.mbels.aol.com/rachelmill (Keyword
to: http://membets.aol.com/rachelmill)

Grace & Lace Letter International
A Christian publication serving spiritual needs of all crossdressers,
transgendereds, transsexuals, new women, new men, significant others and
family members. Your articles, letters and love offerings welcomed.
MAILING ADDRESS: 8880 Bellaire 82 #104, Houston TX 77036
E-Mail: JEFTRIS@aol.com
Web: http://www.geocities.com/SouthBeach/Sands/7n7/
and http://members.aol.com/GnLNews/index~ .html
Other sites for Transgendered Christians:
http://www.geocities.com/-terrimain/inspire.htm
http://www.geocities.comlhotsprings/2776/
httpJ/www.engr.ucdavis.edu/-jsdevlir\ljadecath.html
and for all GLBT Christians: 'Whosoever ' Christian Magazine

On-Line Support Group for Christian Transsexuals
A weekly chat session fer Christian Transsexuals is being held every Friday at 6:00 pm.
Pacific Time. The Web A~ for the javachatroom is hup://membets.tripod.corn/-tenim/
tschatl .htm . The chat is moderated by Tern Main, who describes hezse1f as a Webselvant for
the Emergence Web Site (http://membets.tripod.com/-terrim/fSCHRIST.HTM ).
''We've been having 3-5 people a week show up. We've been able to share the wool of
God, comfort and support each other, even pray on line with each other. Distance isn 'ta barrier
on the internet," says Main.
The room is a 24 hour room so you can drop in anytime, but during the chat times you
can be sure someone is there. Main says anyone with an interest in the subject and respect for
the participants is welcome.

3

DO NOT FEAR
My Lord God.
I do not sec the road ahead of me,
I cannot know for certain
where it will end. ..
I know that you will lead me
by the right road.
though I may know
nothing about it
Therefore I trust You always.
I will not fear,
for you are with me,
and You will never leave me
to face my perils alone.

FaJJ 1998

Crace and Lace Letter /nJernad.onai

Is Tr-ansaender-ism Wr-()na?
by Rev. Lauren Rene Hotchkiss
During the course of our lives many of us
in the gender community have experienced a
great deal of guilt around the issue of
crossdressing. Beyond the usual fears most of
us had growing up, wondering if it meant we
weregayorwantedasexchange, we have also
had to confront our feelings regarding whether
it was morally "right"
The Bible actually says very little on the
subject other than a brief reference in
Deuteronomy 22:5 which states: "No woman
shall wear an article of man's clothing i;ior
shall a man put on a woman's dress; for those
that do these things are abominable to the Lord
your God." It is a quotation, however, that has
been mistranslated and taken out of context
from the original Aramaic text of the Torah,
which in more literal translation reads: "No
man shall put on a dre$ to enter the women's
tent (fear of rape), nor shall a woman wear an
article of man's clothing for the purposes of
entering the holy temple (from which women
we.re prohibited by ancient Judaic law)." It's
change from a conditional to an absolute is
reflective of both the political and moral climate of the times and of the biases of the
translating body.
Some Biblical scholars believe that early
Hebrew scripture passages such as this and a
similar one which appears in Leviticus may
have been a response to the Jewish people's
experience during their exile into Babylonia
in the sixth century B.C. Throughout the Near
East at that time, priests in sO-called "pag?.n"
religions tried to emulate the preeminent
mother-goddess figures by becoming effeminate and often dres.5ing ~women. Judaism.
which depicted a God who was indisputably
and exclusively male, had no place for such
mother-goddess worship. The?iestsofJehovah, therefore, outlawed the inctice of men
dressing as women to keep the captive Jews
from participating in these "heathen" rituals.
The Bible, ever contradictory, also contains an interesting passage in Genesis 1:2731: "God created humanity in God's own
image; in the image of God they were each
created male and female. And God blessed
them .... And God saw that everything God
had made was very good."

Fall 1998

Paul seems to addre$ the issue of polarity from the opposite perspective in his letter
to the Galatians (Galatians 3:28): "There is
neither slave nor freeman, there is neither
male nor female, fer we are all one in Christ
Jesus."
A.C.l.M., not surprisingly, given its nonbehavioral perspective and exclusive use of
masculine gender, has nothing whatever to
say about crossdressing. Just out of curiosity,
I did a reference check of gender-related words
with my A Course In Miracles computer
program arid came up with ihe following stats:
the word "he," (and this includes the big HE),
is mentioned 4240 times; "him/Him" 3045
times; his/His, 3959; man, 18; and man's, 1.
On the flip side, "woman," "female," "she,"
"girl". "feminine," "daughter," andeve.n "gender" scored zip. There is only one mention of
"her'" (M 78/82): "This terrible mistake about
yOW"Self the miracle cooects as gently as a
loving mother sings her child to rest"
Somewhere during the COW'SC of the last
three er four thousand years the whole subject
of transgenderism was blown out of JXOPortionand transfcrmedintoa~ietal taboo. The
issue is not really one of what clothing we
choose to wear upon our bodies, however, nor
of the gender role we adopt -- I mean c'mon,
God "couldn't care~" -- but of how we
have been taught to feel about it. Objectively,
then. it must be as "right• for us to ~
ourselves in one gender ~on as in
another.

Hwnan history is full of examples of
those who chose to live in the opposite gender
to the one in which they were born. but pertiap.. the spiritual aspect of tramgendemm is
best typified by the Native American
ttamgenderists known as Berdaches. The
Bezdachc were often respected spiritual leaders and healers thought to~ supernatural powers. They were revered for their ambigende.r stalllS. and had the unique pennWion
by tribal society to adopt the social roles of
women, men, or both. by their own choice.
Their greatest contribution to their culture,
however, came from utilizina their special
cnm-gende.r insights to mediate ~ 00.
tween men and women of the tribe. Similar
4

traditions can also be fowld in the Shamanistic
cultures of the Ural-Altic peoples of northern
Asia and Europe.
The societal separation of male and female is an interesting phenomenon, as it was
very much an act of humanity rather than of
God. The Almighty never decreed, as far as
I'm aware, that things in life be segregated
from each othe.r as being either male or female
behaviors. The fact that we accord certain
rights and respect only to one "sex" while
denying it the expression of emotion and
display of more gentle Lehavi~ that we allow
in the other seems of little value in any real
sense.
In our culture, we are all brought up to
believe that there are only two gender presentations allowed to us, and that they are inextricably tied to the genetic sex into which we are
born. We come into this world as either "little
boys" er "little girls" and are expected to live
the rest of our lives in strict accordance to the
narrowly defined gender roles that society has
"~gned" to each sex.. This is fine, in theay,
were it not for the reality that for some of us it
just doesn't work.

There is no one definitive reason why
~endezism occurs. Opinion is divided in

the medical community ~ to whether the
cause is hereditary, envirorunental. <X" due to
physiological or psychological factors. In any
case., most tend to agree that there is nothing
psychiatry can do to "cure" tramgendered
behavior as it is not a mental illness. Sllldies
have shown thatitisnotsomething that will go
away with time, nor have efforts to give it up
ever ixove.n to be successful.
Although the COURSE tells us that the
body is not real, a few medical •facts• about
hwnan l'Cp'Oduction are m~ revealing:
A new fetus has no sex characteristics
during the first eight weeks of a pregnancy.
Following this, we go through a stage where
we are all essentially female fetuses, producing both male and female hcrmones. It is the
predominance ofestrogen or testmterone that
make us male or female in anatomical structure. Chemically the difference between these

two compounds is very slight; a matter of four
atoms of hydrogen and one of carbon. The
difference then between "male" and "female"
is far more delicate than we have been conditioned to believe.
Sexual development in the fetus is always biased toward female Wlless an extremely complex process of gender differentiation is imposed on the growth process. This
gender differentiation process will normally
be initiated only if the fetal cells have "y"
chromosomes with fully functioning "SRY"
segments.
Perhaps the clearest proof of this female
bias is that both males and females have breast
nipples. During and after puberty, elevated
levels of estrogen will cause breast and nipple
growth, in men as well as in women. Similarly. elevated levels of testosterone will cause
beard and body hair growth and a lowering of
the voice pitch in females as well as in males.
Fetal development reverts to female during any period when the gender differentiation process is interrupted. These interruptions can be caused by stress, poor nutrition.
drugs, and even by deficiencies or abnonnalities present within the mother's body. It is this
gender differentiation process that produces.,
withinallofus,physiologicalandpsychological characteristics that are a blend of male and
female traits. If the push of this differentiation
process is strong, but not sufficiently strong to
be completely accomplished, physical and/or
psychological
transgenderism
or
ambigenderism results.
When a child is born, the first question
usually asked is "Is it a boy or a girl." If the
answer is not clear, as in the case of physically
intersexed individuals, surgery is usually performed so that they can be "a.Wgne.d" to one
sex or the other, so as not to upset the dualistic
paradigm.
From birth, this paradigm is continually
reinforced through a complex yet largely subliminal program of gende.r sociali.z.ation. Although in the case of transgende.red individuals, the gender role conditioning didn't quite
"take," it was nonetheless apparently assimilated at a deep enough level that many of us
feel we need to dress in the clothing of the
opposite sex in orderto give ourselves permission to display what we have compartmentalized as "feminine" or "masculine" qualities.
This seems to indicate that in addition to the
biological element, we all have the psycho-

logical and spirirual potential foc both the
feminine and the masculine within us. This
being so, the concepts of male and female are
not the "opposites" that we have been taught,
but are, rather, compliments: two parts of one
complete whole.
'The realization for some of us, that we are
not like others of our sex, often begins very

early in life, manifesting as a sense of innate
inappropriateness of being grouped with others of our so-<:alled gender and not allowed
behaviors which seem natural to us. Many of
us at this age begin "borrowing" parent's or
sibling's clothes and dressing up as often as
opportunity permitted.
In my own life, though I was born male,
I never did feel like a man. I've always felt
more comfortahle aror:Jild women than I have
around men, and have always had a strong
need for feminineex~on. Somehow femininity seemed more natural to me; it was
masculinity that I had to "learn", and which
always seemed forced.

Grace and Lace Lerter Iruernarionai
judgment and rejection by prospective partners due to our gender issues. This fear can be
particularly intimidating when it involves a
person or persons for whom we care a great
deal.

Facing the seeming expectations of prospective partners, we often experience the
dilemma of either choosing loneliness or being in a relationship where we must pretend to
be something that we are not This often
develops into a sense of low self-esteem in
regard to relationships, and, feeling that another could not be attracted to us, we keep
ourselves from attracting a mate.
Though afraid of not being able to eventually find a relationship, we often come to a
time in our lives when we can no longer
prt',tend, F..alizing that whoever we one day
become involved with, will have to be able to
love us fer who we are. Though we often feel
very lonely, many of us feel that itis preferable
to living a lie, and that it is better to wait foc the
right relationship, than to get involved in one
that is not.

Having both the feminine and the masculine within us, it follows that there must be a
vast blending ground between the diametrically opposed concepts of man and woman;
and yet the myth ~that there is nol No

wonder that the two "sexes" often have such
difficulty undelstanding each other when 8'r
ciety has cast them into theroleof"opposites."
Perhaps its time we question the whole male/
female relationship construct Obviously it is
not working when our language, our social
and behavicral mores. our entire society with
all its movies, books. and television programs
is full of imtances of the "o~· sexes
unable to relate to one anothez.
Interestingly, even witen someone
changes gender, there is still the expectation
that they are ~ to trade in one set of
behavioral and~ standards fa another,
rathe.r than in any way integrating masculine
and feminine qualities. Beyond the challenge
of living a lifestyle fa which we have not been
trained a conditioned. there comes the further
difTJCU.lty of integrating a relationship with a
significant other into our lives and reconciling
it with our transgende.red lifestyle.
The desire to be in a rcla1ionship with
someone with whom we can share our life is
a WU: human need, and not one which can be
re~ without effect Its lack can often
contribute to feelings of loneliness and depression. Along with this often comes a fear of

5

Perhaps aggravating the situation, is the
popular m&:onception of all transgendered

people as gay. M~ people don't realize that
there is a difference between sex and gende.r - the fonner being a biologic fact of birth,
while the latter is a choice of presentation.
According to a poll taken by the Intemational
Foundation for Gende.r Education, 213 to 3/4
of us, including your humble autha', are heterosexual with the remaining percentile fairly
evenly split between gay, bisexual, and~xual
orientations.
Although there are periods when being
alone can be a very enriching oppatunity fer
growth and awareciess by encouraging inner
discovery of self, there are times when the
~~alm~toomuch to bear, and
we would justlike to have someone to be clooe
to. I know that personally I have felt very sad
sometimes when I considerthe~bilitythat
I may never again hear a woman say "I love

you".
Sometimes it seems that it would be so
much ~ if WC could just forget all this
gender stuff, and just be "noonal" (if one
grantt "normality's" existence beyond a societal~). Certainly it would remove a
barrier that seems to exist between ourselves
and others. As many times as we try to supp~ our transgenderism, however, it keeps
coming bade. Most of us eventually realize
Fall 1998

Grace (ll1d Lace Letter Ir11ernationp.l
that it IS not sometlung we can ' give up, "
anymore !.han we can give up breathing. For
whatever reason, part of our learning and
growth process seems to lie in the exploration,
acceptance and integration of both the ying
and the yang of our being. " you can behave as
you think you should, but without entirely
wanting to do so. This produces consistent
behavior, but entails great strain." (I 25(29)
I have often wondered whether part of
our motivation in crossdressing stems from
the fact that we are perhaps subconsciously
trying to transform ourselves into the part of
our innex being from which we have separated
ourselves. We have been so conditioned to
believe that we must look outside of ourselves
in order to find someone with whom we can
become complete, though constantly disappointed in the attr.mpt, that we have Jost.si3ht
of the fact that wholeness comes from within.
Because of this misperception, we have found
it necessary to create this second person within
ourselves, and manifest them externally, in
order to fill a self-perceived void

As important as a relationship is to most
of us, it is a fallacy to think that it, of itself, will
bring us happiness or a sense of completion. A
relationship, to be a positive expression of
love needs to not only be with someone with
whom we genuinely love, but who loves us fa
who we truly are, not in spite of who we are.
It is what, in the COURSE, is referred to as the
difference between a special and a holy relationship -- i.e. two persons who are complete
unto themselves seeking further growth
through theirccmmitment to one anotherralhel'
than "needing" or seeking "completion" from
one another." And as the tmholy relationship
is a continuing hymn of hate in praise of its
maker, so is the holy relationship a happy song
of praise to the Redeemer of relationships." (T
337(362)
One thing that I have noticed that has
shifted in me is the desperate "need" I oocc felt
around "having" to be in a relation.Wp in
order to be happy. Though I sometimes feel
lonely, I don't ever again to want to be in a
situation of having a partner with whom I must
pretend to be something that I am not, na to
get into a relationship that is not right, out of
desperation.

conditioned to accept for ourselves is often
not in harmony with our spiritual truth. As
paradoxical as it may seem, it is a situation in
which one must live a lie, as others would term
it, in order to live one's own personal truth.
What this suggests to me is that rather than
being considered a losing proposition,
transgenderism or ambigenderism can be seen
in the more positive light of expanding the
entire gamut of gender and sexual identity,
and opening the doer to the fcrward path of
spiritual growth through the integration and
balancing of the masculine and the feminine
within us. "Healing always produces harmony, because it proceeds from integration."
(I 112/121)
Following this line of reasoning, it becomes clear that it takes as much rationaliz.atioo, albeit on a more sul;>.liminal or WlCOllscious level, to decide to live according to the
dictates of one's biological gender, as it does
to transition from one gender to the other. It
just appears easier to do so because it is
condoned and continually reinforced by society, and so never questioned
There is a tendency with the labels we use
to separate from each othe.r, to see things in
terms of black and white. The reality, howeve.r, is that there is a wide continuum that
exists between such polariz.edextremesof gay
and straight; transsexual and transvestite; or
masculine and feminine. Within each such
label there is so much diversity and individuality, so many individuals that do not neatly fit
the constructs of the definition, ~ to render it
uscless. Even among the non-transgendered
there is such variety of supposedly genderspecific beham that there is little validity to
the viewpoint that "real women" a "real men"
don't do this or that. "The fact they have no
meanii-ig in thP...mSt'Jves is denwra;trated by the
ease with which these labels change with
other judgmen~ made on different aspects of
experience." (T 5961641)

Beyond whatever stereotypes we use to
separale from one anothel', we are all one, and

neither the clothca we wear, our genda or
sexual prefezences, na the color of our skin,
are really of any imp<XtallCC. What is impatant is that we are all hC2'C fa a purpose; to
discover the wlity of all people, andrealiz.e the
connectedn~ WC

Although it's true that the gender presentation that many of us in the transgender
community adopt may not be consistent with
the accepted role for our anatomical sex, it is
equally true that the role that we have been
Fall 1998

all share.

The label of "crossdresser" or "tran.we.stite," seems to be a particularly powerful button fa some people, even inciting certain
individuals to acts of aggression or violence.

6

Though it's convenient to place the cause of
the problem outside of ourselves, until we are
willing to see how much has to do with
personal responsibility, in deciding to make a
difference by making the conscious decision
to examine our own biases and judgments
with the help of the Holy Spirit and putting
energy into eliminating them, the situation
will not alter.
On the broader scale, the existence of
aggression, violence, and war may have much
to do with the sublimation of the full gamut of
the feminine/masculine balance within each
of us. Perhaps the evolution of the human race
lies in our bringing to peaceful co-existence
the male and female within ourselves. As we
learn to accept that we are both, and begin to
integrate rather than divide the two, possibly
we will find the peace and unity that God
intended as our birthright, and no longe.r feel
the need to strive against one another. "The
ego always seeks to divide and separate. The
Holy Spiritalwaysseekstounifyandheal." (I
110/118)

It is oft.en said that membeJ's of the gender
conununity are not like other women and
men, ~ they have neither the socialization,
physiognomy, a conditioning of the one, ncr
the ~ychological compatibility of the other,
but such is often the way of change. Whether
this involves, as it doe$ fa many of us, wearing the clothing of the opposite sex. CX' in just
learning to see from others' perspectives, it is
all a part of our growth as extensions of God.
Poosibly, in time, the wholeconceptof masculine and feminine will no longe.r be necessary.
As we develop in spirit, perhaps we will get
closer and closer to the wlity of ourselves and
aschism will no longer exist between the male
and female essences of our being.
We are now entering a changing age, a
time when long venezated sex roles are being
challenged. Fer the first time in rec<rded
histay we are afforded the rare oppcrtunity to
integrate our hitherto separate halve.a into a
cohesive~ toexpla'e,manand woman.
the balancing of our male and female energy
and to experience, what tw, up until now,
been comidered the exclusive domain of the
"opposite" sex. Perilaps, fa those of us who
live a transgendered a androgynous existence, thercisarea,g)ll whywewerebanas we
were: to explore &mdez integration oo both an
outer and inner manifestational level In the
process of doing this, we learn to become true
to who we arc, more at peace with ourselves,
and more able to be of service to othezs. "To

heal or to make joyous is therefore the same as
to integrate and to make one. " (f 66(72)
Transgenderism is not always an easy
path to follow. It is often fraught with challenges of self-acceptance and the perceived
judgments of others, as well as difficulties in
finding and maintaining relationships. Though
some may regard it as a choice of loneliness,
however, I feel that for those of us who feel
guided to this lifestyle, it is a choice for
freedom.
Perhaps, one day, the time will come
when anatomy is no longer the arbiter of
pennissible dress and behavior, and it will no
longer matter what we choose to wear, nor
how we wish to behave, as long as we do no
hann to others; when we will no longer have
to think fa temlS of ~ing or of expressing the appropriate gender, but of just
being ourselves
I have always had a deep appreciation of
spirituality and reve.rence for God, which has
deepened in recent years with my study of A
COURSE IN MIRACLES. I feel, also, that
there is a connection between my spiritual
faith and my gender jollllley. Though initially
identifying as a transvestite and briefly going

I believe that I have grown as a person

Grau and Lau Letter International
an awareness that foc those of us that· are
transgendered, it is no more a choice than
being born male oc female, oc straight oc gay.
Perhaps you might even find yourself experiencing a little more understanding, empathy
and sense of oneness the next time you encounter a transgendered person. And if that's
the case then this article has been worthwhile.

and in my ability to love, through the acceptance of who I am. I was much less at peace
when I did not allow myself to express the true

©1995, Rev. Lamen Rene Hotchkiss,
Albany, CA [Reprinted by pennission.]

through a stage when I wondered if I was
becoming transsexual, I now realize that I was
born into the body that I have foc a purpose: to
accept and integrate the male and the female
within myself and to be a teachex and learner
concerning inner balance.

spirit of who I was. It interfered with my
ability to connect with others from the heart.
Once I began to open myself up to the totality
of my being, however, I felt myself becoming
a more complete and open person.
Whether we believe in God, the power of
the universe, oc the Great Goombah is of little
importance. It is faith that is impo.a·1ant.·Faith
in ourselves and in the path that God has given
us. Isn't it time that we accepted ourselves and
respected each other for whatever personal
spiritual truth we are called upon to follow?

Am I advocating a transgendered
lifestyle? Absolutely not. It adds a difficulty
and a complexity to life that I would not wish
on anybody. If there is anything that I hope
you take away from this article, however, it is

Editorial Statement
The Grace and Lace Letter is a Christian publication
fortransgendered persons. Our motto is ·where Charity
and Love Prevail..: In keeping with our motto, we wiU not
publish material bashing any transgendered or Christian
person or group, nor will we publish any ad hominem
argument. We hope to bring the message of God's
unconditional love and forgiveness, as shown to us once
and for all by the saving Ufe, death and resurrection of
Jesus Christ, to ourtransgendered brothers and sisters.
We welcome personal testimonies, teachings from God's
Holy Scriptures, prayers and poems and hymns, cartoons and humorous stories, accounts of events affecting Christian transgendered persons, and messages of
hope and inspiration. Our goal is to praise and worship
God and bring His healing love to His children.

[This article appeared in the March 1995
(Vol.9, No.I) issue of MIRACLES
MONTHLY. It is 4,247 wools long (-28 K).
It is copyrighted by Rev. Lauren Rene
Hotc~ and can not be reprinted without
advanced written permission. MIRACLES
MONTHLY is published by the Community
i'vliracles C..enter in San Francisco, CA The
C.M.C. is supported solely by people just like
you who give donations and purchase books
and tapes through us. We invite your support
of this A COURSE IN MIRACLES healing
center. PHONE: (415)621-2556, URL: http:/

/www .miracles~urse.org]
[Rev. Lamen Rene Hotchkiss c/o Community Miracles Center, 2269 MartetSL, San
Francisco, CA, 94114]
Send e-mail: miracles@earthlink.net

CROSSDRESSERS •..
You are not alone!
fli£ doalz.~

{o"- fli£ duond delf,

CM.

*An educational and social support organization for
heterosexual crossdressers, spouses and families
*Quarterly journal
*Local chapters with monthly newsletters
*MailForwarding Service and Membership Directory
*Quarterly newsletter for spouses and partners
*Big Sister Program for individual support
*Online forums for crossdressers and spouses

For Information write:
Trl-Ess, 8880 Bella Ire 82 t104, Houston TX 77036
Telephone: 713-349·8969
E-Mall: TRIESSINFO@aol.com
Fail 1998
7

Grace and Lace Letter lniernationai

Dear Frances
Recently I experienced a few monihs offear and hate that I had forgotten existed. During this time I shared my fear and confusWn with
several friends. One ofthese people was my Minister. After this all had passed, and I told her about iJ's passing she asked me to wrile an article
for the church newsletter. The following is the article as it will appear in "Hean Lines," the newsletter for The CeTiler For Creative And
Conscious living (a United Church ofReligious Science). This will also be published in "Alpha-Bits" in October. Oh, the photos are in the mail.
--Janyne

!ilnswerei Prayer
by Janyne
Why am I surprised when it works? I
have known it works for some time now but
when the power of directed prayer is clearly
visible it still is a bit of a shock to my system.
A shock I gladly accept and look forward '.o.
But still there is that little part of me that says,
"Wow, it really worked!"
Several years ago I came to terms with
being transgendered. If you don't know me or
don't know what transgendered means, I will
give you a brief lesson. I am a genetic male
who is bl~ with a feminine spirit. and I
choose to honor that spirit in dress and manner. In short. I live most.of my life as a woman.
In doing that I know that I am expressing the
joy and beauty of my gift from GOD. For the
last several years I have lived in this manner
and have enjoyed a level of acceptance that is
almost unbelievable even to me.
I live in a mostly quiet Long Beach
neighborhood, a little crowded but friendly
and filled wii.'.1 the voices of children of many
races and cultures playing togethe.r free from
the prejudices and fear they may learn as they
get older. Next to my home is an apartment
building. The t'JPe ofbuildingrefened to, hi::re
in Long Beach, as a "cracker box unit". It has
all the faults that these units have: too many
people, not enough parking, too much turn
over and not enough room far the children to
play. But in spite of these drawbacks. the
people that live there do the best they can and
for the most part remain up beat hard working
friendly folks. I have lived in my place far just
over two years now and have blended into my
neighborhood. I come and go freely and am
accepted by the shop keepers and residents.

But to this world of peace and tolerance
there recently came a dose of fear and prejudice that I had come close to forgetting existed. A family moved into the apartment
building next to me, and within a week ar two
Fall 1998

of their arrival my life was threatened, my car
was vandaliz.ed and my mail box was filled
with garbage and vile su~tances. My first
reaction was fear. I wet1t to the police and
explained the circwnstances to them. They
were unable to and seemed unwilling to help.
I called my lawyer and was advised to move.
On two separate occasions the husband and
father in this family threatened to beat
up
and then to kill me. The wife and mother
verbally assaulted me at every chance she got.

me

Their children took up the call and would
stand outside my door and shout vile threats
and c~. They took to following me and I

genuinely feared for my safety. I attempted to
talk to these people but it~ to no avail. The
best effort I achieved was that the husband
took a swing at me. I was able to step out of his
reach and miss out on the experience of street
fighting in front of my own home. These
people in a short period of time had brought
me bock to a place of doubt and low self worth
that I thought was fcrever gone.
With no whele to loolt I called Reverend
Betsy Elliot, just to talk and to hear a friendly
voice. In the next few days I spoik.c with many
friendly voices, Reverend Diane, Rose
Gcnt.ennan and several of my friends al oUr
church. Betsy and I treated far undo'standing
and clarity, Diane and Rose treated far me and
helped me stay cle.ar. I attempted to sec these
neighbors in the light of God. Prayezwentout
far me and my neighbors. I continued to walk
my path. to live my life as whatever example
of spirit that I am.
Then the children seemed to get used to
me, they leamedmynameandsaidhellowhen
they saw me. They asked intelligenl questioos
and we shared conversation&. One day a boy
came to my door and apologiud for putting
spoiled fruit in my mail box. Then one afternoon the woman in this family said hello, and

8

we had a small conversation. About a week
latec we met on the street. She stopped me and
asked if she could speak with me. I ~d of
course, we talked about easy things fer a few
minutes, my dress, my car and my approaching wedding. I then asked her what had caused
herchangeofheartaboutme.She~d, "If you
never spoke to me again, I would understand.
I am so sorry far the way I treated you. You are
a good neighbor and a nice person. You neve.r
did anything to us and you are so brave and
quiet as you just go about your business." She
went on to tell me she had talked to the women
whele she works about me, and they said to
her, "Haveyouevergiventhispersooachance?
Have you gouen to know her, to see what she
is lik.c?" And of course she hadn't, yet. We
talked far a little mare. I was able to tell her a
smallamountaboutmeandlearnalittleabout
her. The father still doesn't speak to me, but he
does give a small nod or wave in response to
my smile and hello.
Tiiere arc several explanatiom fer the
change these folks went through: they just got
used to me, they weze afraid of a law suit. they
saw that I wasn't going to change just far them,
or whatever. But I know what it wu. Prayer
Treatment, the power of God doing good in
this roomy quiet Loog Beach Neighborhood.
When we deal with fear in any farm be it
prejudice, angC'Z or hate, and that fe.ar in tum
puts ua in our own fear stai.c, go back to the
source, God. With the help of your Ministfr.
Practitioner and friends that share your spiritual path. treal and IDY and hold Love in your
heart. Love is the only answer to fear. With
Love you can continue your palh, be the real
you and know that you are safe in a wald
surrounded by God. And don't be suqrised
when it works.

Grace and Lace Letter !nJernarioniJJ

Goo

MAKE
BY

Before I fanned you in the womb I knew
you, before you were born I set you apart.
--Jeremiah l: 5

I know I'm somebody ACause God don't
-- Ethel Waters
make no junk.
Is biology destiny?

Transsexual Christians often hear the argument raised against changing their bodies:
"God created you to be a man [or a woman]
and that is how you will always be; how you
should remain."
Priortomytransition,Iwasincounseling
with a Christian psychologist He had known
me for years; we had taught cl.a$es together,
and he knew I was sincere in my faith and my
desire to follow God's will. But here I was,
telling him how I had the mind and identity of
a woman. It was difficult for him to accept
"I just can't believe," he told me, "that
God would make such a mistake."
I was ready for this. It was a concept I had
struggled with already. "What would you
say," I answered him, "if I told you I don't
think it is a mistake."
He was speech!~ for a moment as this
iaea sank in. He had nevez considered that
God would create a person with the body of
one sex and the mind of the other. The
understanding of this idea allowed him to
accept the reality of my transsexualism. God
does not make mistakes, but people have
always tried to explain those pel'SOllS who arc
different from the norm. Sometimes the explanations involve punishment fCX" sin.
His disciples asked him, "Rabbi. who
sinned, this man CX' his parentS, that he was
born blind?"
"Neithe.r this man nor his parents sinned,"
Jesus said, "but this happened so that the work
of God might be displayed in his life."
-John 9: 2-3
"Birth defects" are very familiar to me as
a physician. I see persons who were born with
abnonnal openings between the chambers of

BECKY

No JUNK

ALLISON

the heart. Other persons have clefts in the
upper lip and palate, or other severe facial
deformities. They are not due to sin, and
neither are the group of abnormalities seen in
persons who are physically intersexed

But this choice is made for the sake of
one's family, not because God wills us to
remain forevez unfulfilled For most of us
there comes a time, years later, when the
decision must be faced again.

We live in a time when surgical correction is poosible for all these defects. No one
who examines the facts in a loving spirit
would prohibit any of these persons from
obtaining surgery. Modem medical knowledge is one of God's gifts to our age.

The "work of God can be displayed"
(John 9:3) in our lives as we deal with this
decision. We can trust God and rely on His
grace to sustain us through the difficulties of
a transition few people eve- have to face. God

Why is transsexualism not regarded in
the same way? I suspect it is because the
defect with which we are born is not visible,
and because it involves the greatest subject of
taboo in Western civilization - the subject of
sex.
There is strong evidence from current
research which indicates differences in male
and female brain structure, and some studies
are showing that transsexual pel'SOm often
have brain structure resembling the sex with
which theyidentify. This physical evidence
confirms what we have known all our lives that our transsexualism is not a choice, it is a
biologic trait we cannot "cure."

Since the structure of the brain cannot be
changed, the only way to achieve congruity is
to change the body. In our age these changes
are possible with medical and surgical ad-

vances.
But as Christians, arc we free to p~
these changes? Or must we remain as we were
born?

I can find nothing to indi.ca1e that we must
remain so - neither in Scripture (Je&JS did heal
the blind man. after all) CX' ill the parallel
experieoce.s of othtt medical. conditions.

has not promised to remove the difficulties,
but to be with us through them.
When you ~ through the waters,

I will be with you;
and when you ~ through the rivers,
they will not sweep ovez you.
When you walk through the fire,
you will not be burned;
the flames will not set you ablaze.
--Isaiah 43:2
He is with us. But we will ~ through
the walelS; we will walk through the fire.
Jeremiah knew that God had created him
and had a plan CCX' his life. It must have been
hard to see sometimes. Jeremiah ixeached
God's message toJ udah f<X" fCX'ty years, and no
one paid any attention to him. Hew~ rejected
by the prospe.rous, "religm" ruling class. He
was imprisoned and placed in solitary confinement. Despite despair and~ he
maintained his faith in God to delivez him.
By today's~. Jezemiah would
have been a nuisance and a failure. We may
feel the same way about our lives. I believe
that by accepting our transsexualism~ God's
plan for our lives. and acting apJXOpriately to
resolve the dilemma, we can show the work of
God in our lives and receive His bles.mlgs and

grace.

A Ouistian tramsexual person who has
made life decisions which involve other pezsons - marriage and children - faces the decision whether to pursue change CX' to remain in
thefamilyrelationship.Pc-i.Godwillgi.ve
this person the strength to remain in the relationship. Many persons have done so during
the years their children are young.
9

Falll998

Grace and Lace Letter fnJernad.onal

Sayinas from tfie Si6yCet*
"TG Christians in England (and increasingly in Wales)
Is There Something in the Water?"
- very much a personal view from Caroline
The Sibyls have been having a lively time
of it over the last few months. Three of our
number have had gender reassignment surgery, one (moi) has transitioned to present full
time as a woman, we've got into the newspapers, several Sibyl meetings have happened,
and there have been the continuing struggles
and joys that accompany our lives. It is good
at such times to have a support network, and
ti.at, more than anything, is what the Sibyls
aim to provide. I find that many TG groups <1re
bedevilled by fractious argument; we are often an angry and strong willed (no, let's be
honest - stubborn is the better word!) group of
people. One only needs to read through the
various internet forwns for TG people to see
this anger coming through. To date the Sibyls
have managed to be different; there is a unity,
humility and love that covers many differences. Please pray that as we become a larger
group, and therefore more formal, that we
manage to maintain this spirit; it offers a real
witness to other members of the TG community.
We have given more details of the newspaper story elsewhere. The news, such as it
was - for it really was an abuse of an interview
and bore little resemblance to anything that I
could recognise as fact - broke on the Sunda/
that my church was told of my impending
change of presentation. I remember feeling
worried: What would people think:? Answer:
They hardly noticedi Virtua)Jy nobody has
commented to me about this article. I wondec
if transgendered people are becoming less
newsworthy? In a way this would, I think:, be
good for us. Transgendered people could take
their place as part of the rich tapestty that is
human life, and not be considered as freaks.

handle differences. Apart from my friends, it
has been some "problem" members of my
church who have made me feel welcome. I
wonder if there is a lesson here for us. Paul
told the Phillippians to consider others better
than themselves. I have been challenged as to
who that means for me.
The next formal meeting of the Sibyls
will be over the weekend of 2A!26 Octobefy
whxn WI! will be gaf!iering at St Kai.herine's,
a retreat house in the East End of London.
This will be a time of talk, prayer, talk, worship, eating and wine and . . . oh have I
mentioned talk? It goes without saying that
any TG Christians visiting the UK at that time
would be very welcome to join us. Coot is
about 75GBP for the weekend with reductions for shorter stays. If you could come, then
do contact us via:
BM Sibyls
London, WClN 3XX

Dear All,
Well, what a time we've had since the last
newsletter! We made headlines in The Sundav Iiines, two Sibyls have had surgery (see
Jay's thoughts on the ~ later in the
newsletter) and you have anew edita! Whilst
Jay is out of action I have agreed to produce
the Sibyls' newskuer. How loci~ fGT? That
depends upon how much Jay enjoys her newfound freedom! If you can think of a better
name for the newsletter then just send it in.
The Sibylet is a play on our name and lm
~a Roman Catholic paper. I'm sure that
we can do better. P~ have a go...

So what is it for? Essentially it's about
sharing our strengths, weaknesses (do be careful here, confidences are lost once you're in
print!), the good and bad things that are happening. The newsletter keeps us in touch with
each othec, the group activities and offers a lift
as it planks through the letterbox.
So what to write about? Here are a few
headings as hints:
- Church involvement, have you any stories of acceptance or rejection by churches?
- How do we get involved and accepted
(other than looking like Dana International,
the winner ·of .the Eurovision song contesthuh! Anyone with a waist that thin should be
force-fed chocolate and cake for years!)
- Any particular spiritual insights that
arise from our transgenderedness? I already
have a couple of moving pieces from Abigail
and Deirdre.
- Spiritual props: What's meant a great
deal to you over a period of time or just
recently? Pexhapsasong,abibleverse,aquiet
place, anything.
- What excites you at the moment - good
or bad? This may have nothing to do with
transgendex Woes, for that is not the only
~ue in our lives! For example, rm getting
involved in a series of convel'Sations about
creating community within the church. What
strikes me is how large some of the implications are. What excites me is the ~bility for
Christian witness through change -i lifestyle
and values.
- Lest we get too serious, what silly things
have happened to us that made us laugh, at
least once we bad got over the embarrassment?! I oocc filled a large shopping bag, one
of those that fill the trolley, and took it to the
car. The Androcur had done its job, I was no
longei- as strong as I had been and couldn't lift
it out of the trolley. A strapping 6-foot 'bloke'
looking for a granny to help lift the shopping!
- Anything else that gets our pens, ~
writers or word procesD"S buzzing!

On a personal note, my own story this
We need more contributas to the newsswnmer has been one of helping family, letter. TheyarecomingbutJayhasagaindone
BM Sibyls., London, WClN 3XX
friends, and colleagues through my own morethanherfairshareofthewriting. I'mnot
I'm looking fcrward to hearing from you.
change. I have been struck by two things. sure that I can keep up with her, so let me
First, how supportive have been people to encourage you all to write something. A
With love
whom I have managed to speak. Secondly, newsletter is p-etty dull if it only contains
Caroline Ramsey
how reticent are others are to question some- news and views from the 'centre'. This is how
thing that troubles them. Additionally, it we can all keep each other in touch with our
seems that the more "apparently" secure in lives, which is crucial if we are to Jl"llY for and
their faith some are the less able they are to support each other.
Fall 1998
• Newsletter of the Sibyls, a support organization for transgendered Christians in the U.K.
10

Grace and Lace Letter ln.urnmiono.i

The Sibyls

The Sunday Times Article

by Jay

Comments by Jay, Val and David

First, let me give a big welcome to
Caroline, who is editing the Newsletter for the
first time. I really look forward to this. It's
going to be fun to read and there is no doubt in
my mind that she will do a first c~ job.
(Editorial blush!) I do wish her well and every
success.
It is a joy that people are coming forward
to help in the various thing that need doing to
keep the Sibyls on the road. Asa group, we are
steadily growing and our numbers now exceed fifty. This is a long way from the original
idea when we thought we would be lucky if we
had a dozen or so. We are at the point when we
will have to organise a little more formally,
involving more people in th1! various jobs.
perhaps a constirurion, perhaps officers. ...
This is more pressing in that I am still
hoping to move to Pembrokeshire. Whilst it
won't stop me being very involved in Sibyls'
affairs, it will restrict me, and others will have
to step into the breach. It will also mean that
meetings in Surrey will stop, unless anyone
else feels able to take over.

So now is.your chance! If you want to
be involved in the running of the group, step
forward! If you have any ideas for doing so oc
for the way forward, now is the time to speak.
We have one piece of excellent news.
Thanks to the good offices of Rev Malcolm
J olmson, the Delamere Trust have made us a
grant of £500 tCl use in blping those who
cannot afford to attend meetings. We intend
to set up a tiny committee to supervise this
money and subsidise those who find it difficult to come to St Katherine's for financial
reasons. If you do need help, to flllld- partially
or fully-attendance, please let me know. We
will have to eke the fund out, but it is thezc to
be used. Although this gift is very generous,
we should be looking after our own and should
be raising money within the group to help
those l~ fortunate.
Again, we need to think about the introductions of su~ptions, including keeping
the fund going. Whatever happens, the future
is looking good. We have a strong and enthusiastic membership and, with God's help, we
will go forward What other TG group made
it to the front page of The Sunday Times?

We made it to the front page of~
Sunday Times earlier this summer and into the
middle of the "People" and "News of the
World". I was suitably irnpr~ with the
quality of the reporting in what is supposed to
be a quality paper. You may be able to do
better than me, but I managed to find four
errors in the title alone! "Secret Sect of
Transsexual Priests shakes Church" Well, the
Sibyls is not a sect, we're not secret, wearenot
full of priests, except in the sense of the
priesthood of all believers - but I don't think
that the journalist was into Luther- and finally
the notion that our little group could shake the
church is akin to the idea of a ice cube shaking
an ocean going liner! I was~ that a
supposedlyreputablepapera.stheTheSunday
Times should be so slovenly in their editorial
check up of a front-page article. Any way
there is more to be said about the aftershock of
this piece, so fll leave that to Val and David.

"Slbyls lose their virginity"
(or something like that!) ·Val
Where were you on Sunday 31 May, the
day this 'secret sect' of ours was splashed all
across the front of the Sunday Times? I was
in Leeds, visiting relatives, and that's who'c
Kate Bishop tracked me down. Obsezve.rreadel' that I am, I hadn't seen the piece, so
Kate read it over to me, word by word.
Sibyls always had potential as a media
story - we discussed this at a meeting a year
ago. I said then that. a.s an experienced media
consultant, I would always be available ifhelp
were needed. So, action stations. First ixiaity - involving me, Jay, Suzanne and Kate was to agree on a position. Our aims were:
a) protect any vulnerable individuals
b) defend Sibyls
c) project a positive message about
transgendered Christians.
Over the next 24 hours, I spake with
journalists from the The Tunes. The Daily
Mail....and The Guardian, plus a researcher
from BBC TV's Heart of the Mauer. IS
~ & The Daily Mail wanted names, places
- no deal. The Guardian asked fer some
background, so I wrote a l<XX>-wooi feature.
Aft.et two weeks, they decided not to USC iL As
I writ.e, it's with The lndeoendenL Their
religious affairs~ may follow it
up, depending on what, if anything, comes out
of the Lambeth Conference.
11

·

Last week I had a meeting with the television researcher. We talked for a long time
and he could well be the right person to project
that pofiltive message. He would like to look
atalongerformatprogramme,partofadifferent series. It will be a long road and we must
tread carefully. The pr~ of creating good
broadcast television can be both seductive and
divisive. We must understand at all times
what we're doing and why. Sibyls has my
conunitment to help in any way possible, but
particularly in respa:t of any media opportunity oc crisis.

"From the other end of the
Investigative report .. " • David
One of the ways in which I try to repay the
supp<Xt that I have received from the Diocese
in my search for transgender truth is to make
myself available to anyone seeking information in this field from a Christian perspective.
Mostly that means theological students, and
clergy seeking to understand more about a
particular parishioner. Occasionally however
it is a media contact I was turned down foc an
'Esther' when they discovered I wasn't a Bib.lebashing anti (wlfair to Bibles) but when~
SWldayTimesapJXOOChed me itwam't unique.

What was wlique was the degree of interest shown. In the end I suppose we spent
around an hour talking, and of course that
meam a large amount of infocmation was
transmitted, including some outline information about Sibyls. I remember mentioning that
we didn't advertise in the general p-ess, which
appeared in print as a 'secret sect'. I said I was
in contact from time to time with around focty
transgende.red ministexs arai monks, of whom
the seventeen Anglicans were picked on. I
said there were ministecs in Sibyls from which
we were turned into a clerically dominated
group. I said I had received a draft submmioo
to the Lambeth Conference, which they later
told me had not been used by the Lambeth
Conference, and then printed otherwise. Finally IhaveheardaSlDry from aseriicrOlW'Chman that there were two TS post-op JXiests in
secta ministries. I said I couldn't confinn it,
and the more I think about it the~ plausible
it seems, but it was the lead point Ah, well. ..

Fall 1998

Grace and Lace Leuer fnJernational
Friends,
God uses.fire to separaie the wheaifrom the chaff Fire also tempers steel. Sometimes when we are in the midst offire il is hard to remember
God's purpose and control in our lives. I thought you mightfind this of value. The message is from Terri Main ofEvangel Tabernacle Assembly
of God Church in Fresno, California.
... Kori

When you've been through the fire,
the sparks don't hurt so much!
One of my favorite Old Testament stories
is that of the Hebrew Children and the fiery
furnace. Certainly, this is a grand story of
God's deliverance. Just as a review, Shadrach,
Meshach and Abednego were three Hebrews
who worked in the palace of the Babylonian
king Nebuchadneuar. They were sort of civil
servants.
Well, the King decided that t.e would
impose on all his people sort of<.statf>...r>~··k.ro:- -i
religious practice. He set up a huge idol (some
historians believe it was of himself) to be
worshipped when he had musicians play a
certain tune. Our trio were the only ones who
would not bow to the idol. Just as an aside,
there were probably other Jews working for
the king, but only Shadrach, Meshach and
Abednego had the courage not to bow. The
king gave them a second chance saying,
"Shadrach,MeshachandAbednego,doyenot
worship my gods, nor worship the golden
image I have set up? Now if ye be ready that
at what time ye hear the sound of the comet.
flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery and dulcime.r and
all kinds of musick, ye fall down and worship
the image I have made; well: but if ye worship
not, ye shall be cast the same hour into he ·
midst of a bwning fiery furnace: and who is
that God that shall deliver you out of my
hands?"
BecauseNebuchadne.zzar knew his gods
were incapabb of such a fell he ~umed
Jehovah to be equally incapable. The Hebrew
Children, though, stood their ground saying,
"We are not careful to answez thee in this
matter. If it be so, our God whom wc serve is
able to deliver us from the burning fiery
furnace; but if not, be it known wito thee, 0
king that we will not serve thy gods, n<X"

worship the golden image which thou has set
up." Well, we all know the story from there.
The music sounds. Our boys remain standing.
The king throws them into the furnace.
The only thing that is burned is their
bonds. They are joined by Jesus in the fire.
(There is a lesson in and of itself). The king
calls them out and gives them each promotions. We never hear from them again. They
g.n back tc their jobs and live runple ordinary
lives after that And yet, such an experience
could not have left them wx:hanged.
I like to imagine a scene about six months
after this miracle. Shadrach, Meshach and
Abednego are working at the palace and

Shadrach groans and throws down his quill
and says, "It's impossible. We need that shipment of grain from the southern ixovinces by
this winter, but those governors down thexe
are trying to push the ?ice up. The king says
nothing doing. And rm supposed to figure this
whole thing out!" But I see Meshach smile and
say, "Shad. remember the fire." Then all three
of them have a good laugh and get back to
work.
The word foc Salvation in the Greek
means both saved and delivered. Wece.rtainly
are saved out of our sins, and we arc saved
from Hell. But we are also comtantly being
delivered from our own fiery furnaces. We all
face publems. Some of us fae:e thing!i we
don't see any way out of. We face ~
family difficulties, financial problems.~
cution, emotional or physical pain.
M~ of us who have been saved for a
significant length of time can look back and
see many times that God Im delivered us from

probl~thathavecrossedourpaths.Someof

us are fortuna1e enough to be able to look back

CLORD ...

~--.we

thank you.

and see pl.aces where we have faced extraordinary difficulties, problems which had the
potential of destroying ~ physically, emotionally or spiritually, and where God intervened and brought us through those difficulties. Why we are fortunate is that, like our
imaginary conversation in the Babylonian
counting room, we can remember the fire
when the ordinary challenges of living arise.
When you've been through the fire, the sparks
don't hurt~ mur.h!
So, when my car lreaks down Cl' I'm
having trouble paying bills or rm fighting a
cold oc I think somebody doesn't like me, I can
just recall some of the maj<X" difficulties I've
faced in the past and see the hand of God in
them and realize that my God who delivered
me out of those things is capable of delivering
me out of what is facing me today.
Indeed, I can begin seeing the problems
as opportunities to see miracles happen in my
life. Off hand, I can think of no great miracle
in the Bible which wasn't in response to a
problem. If you want to see miracles in your

life, you have to face ixoblerns. Othetwise,
you will live a comfCl'table life devoid of the
miraculous. As the old saying goes, "Man's
extremity is God's opportunity."
Each time you face adifficulty, each time
Satan laWlChes an attack, each time you turn
back the assault with the help cf God you
become stronger. You trust more and mere to
God's delive:rance in times past. At times our
armor takes some hits. It gets battle scarred. It
gets dented and scrat.ched. At times that shield
of faith seems like it is about to crack in two.
That's the very time when Jehovah Shua God our Salvation rides in on a white horse
and delivers us out of the situation. And those
in the wocld see this salvation and our testimony is strengthened. Because in spite of the
dents and scars and cracks, the arm<X" holds
and at the end of the battle wc "stand ready fCI'
the next battle.•

Inspiratioll On-Line is a ministry ofEvangel Tabernacle ~mbly of God Church,

Fresno, California.
Fall 1998

12

'

